MS Analytics Class 2021: hey Hello.
MS Analytics Class 2021: hi everyone usually my research to introduce standard issue, and I was just sitting there at six o'clock so I apologize.
MS Analytics Class 2021: No worries but well thanks for being here, I think they all know what you're here for, so I will let you get started, and I think we go to seven and then.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then we have the last class for me for the for the first half of semester, and then next Thursday i'll have Dr hartman and start optimization.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So thanks for being here and there's my right there yeah we're good i'll go the instructors myers usually here to introduce you so are they all over yes.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm gonna try this Mike awesome.
Usera, Daniel: All right, thank you, thank you alright, how we do in class 2021.
Zuberi, Bilal: Well, thank you.
Usera, Daniel: I see it, see some head dogs and I see some shaky hands so was, I mean.
Jim Clark: we're going through the process.
Usera, Daniel: going through the process so tell me where you are in this process and, yes, surviving i'm very proud of you all surviving the 63 days till you graduate moment it's our you're saying like.
Usera, Daniel: We got 63 days left is that number done.
Usera, Daniel: alright.
Jim Clark: So Duffy sure if I could ask a quick question are you going to or were you planning on giving any direct feedback on the visual content that we submitted a week ago.
Usera, Daniel: Yes, I it's actually on my agenda starting tomorrow.
Jim Clark: Okay.
Usera, Daniel: Great that's start looking through.
Usera, Daniel: it's going to take a while, because you are longer debts like 42nd me a lot of you have 3040 slides for presentation, so what i'm probably going to do is give just overall feedback and point to a few things.
Usera, Daniel: So what typically happens with people who haven't done a lot of work with PowerPoint or coaching my PowerPoint.
Usera, Daniel: there's like common mistakes that will weave throughout every like several slides, so what i'm going to probably do to be efficient.
Usera, Daniel: Is all pointed out, at least on one slide and then you'll have to generalize you have to learn from that one slide and then do it because.
Usera, Daniel: it's going to take a lot of time to just try to point out every single little thing does that make sense, so i'll try to point out like on this slide you do this so for other slides make sure you don't do that either.
Usera, Daniel: So sometimes when students when they see grading and markings.
Usera, Daniel: They assume that if I didn't mark on it that it was Okay, but like if if there was already an error on a previous slide, this is a very.
Usera, Daniel: Similar slide that assume that you probably need to make that change on others as well, so what will probably be is mostly comments.
Usera, Daniel: That you'll see in the comments box, with some markings on some slides that's probably what we're going to do it to make it efficient, otherwise I could spend a month.
Usera, Daniel: Like going through each slide and drawing things and pointing things so I want to make sure you get feedback in a timely manner that makes sense.
Jim Clark: Yes, it does so that's the second questions we were on the 11th we're scheduled to turn in our presentation and so that the obvious question is, do we.
Jim Clark: Do we do it do it in appropriate dress this way sitting down or do we need to try to simulate a standard presentation, where the three.
Jim Clark: i'm just i'm just asking because someone's thinking that and I would I would prefer to do it like like we're talking here and making the presentation, but that may not be what the rules are so I want just wanted to clarify that are.
Usera, Daniel: Are there rules on so are their expectations outlines and is there, like a thesis like handbook or like thesis assignment sheet or anything that.
Usera, Daniel: would have a resource I don't think so there's nothing that says anything about style of virtual presentation, this is my first go round with that, so I don't I so i'm not sure.
If there will.
Usera, Daniel: be a precedent for virtual.
Usera, Daniel: Presenting I don't think either so.
Jim Clark: So and that's Okay, it can be something that's after class but.
Jim Clark: That is something.
That.
Jim Clark: You know this is our first experience doing this under covert conditions, too, so.
Jim Clark: yeah we rush things are different so i'll do the best I can.
Usera, Daniel: sure if it was up to me, I think i'll leave it up to the presenter.
Usera, Daniel: So those of you who really want to do something standing and give that really formal look I think it'll look good if you have a good lighting distance angle and we talked about virtual presenting already right we already talked about how to look good on camera and all those things.
Usera, Daniel: So.
Jim Clark: Yes, Sir, we have.
Usera, Daniel: If you've already done that, if you if you can, if you can manage the camera well and all that standing up, then I think that's a good way to go.
Usera, Daniel: If you do sitting down that, of course, make sure same thing lighting distance angle, and I would ask that everyone dress appropriately to wear a presentation like this, so business formal.
Usera, Daniel: Know T shirts no hoodies none of that this is a formal presentation for a master that science degree, so we got to make sure we look the part.
Usera, Daniel: Because i'm starting to notice people get too comfortable at home and it's it kind of takes away from the real gravity of what you're doing here, which is presenting findings to a potential decision maker, or to a group so we want to, we want to respect the occasion for sure.
Usera, Daniel: So let's call it a dress rehearsal for March 11 so I want to make sure everyone's dressed up and they really take this seriously and.
Usera, Daniel: Really, place the gravity or simulate simulator anyway, I guess you would simulate the gravity of the situation.
Jim Clark: Okay, thank you very much yeah.
Usera, Daniel: Okay there any other general administrative questions so yeah i'm hoping, I can get a lot of them done over the next three days.
Usera, Daniel: As far as feedback for you all, and then i'll give you at least a few days to make changes like I said it's gonna be more broad based feedback but it'll least be enough to give you some direction and pointers and such.
Usera, Daniel: And done.
Usera, Daniel: For the 11th yeah i'll feedback for you and on.
Usera, Daniel: On so somebody asked what's the directive, do we for reporting yeah like it's my understanding is supposed to be a real thing like it's it's a practice it's a rehearsal.
Usera, Daniel: So you run through the whole thing like as if you're giving it on game day so yeah That was my understanding of it myra myra has something different, and let me know, but that was my understanding it's the ball it's a full scale dresser result.
wow.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah my grandma I don't believe that this is just the last project cooked you'd be right Ben Ben the video we're talking about.
MS Analytics Class 2021: One more one yeah this one more thing it's just normal project yeah, so I think we'll have an hour and so like we'll have each project coach about has has like 60 minutes.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To go through an hour, so I think it's like a mini cameras going to get my ring because I don't we've never had a dress rehearsal but I don't know because that's that's not I coach people to get their capstone very I don't post, the actual like that part of what they're doing.
or.
Usera, Daniel: Why not so yeah listening so like an.
MS Analytics Class 2021: 11 since our last meeting it's usually it's an hour and so that's just where we make sure all the DS and eyes are crossed and dotted and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And everything everybody's ready to go and that way, I mean if you have anybody who's kind of risks project coaches can let you know, Dr hill know and myron hot here and say hey this person is gonna be a little more time or something like that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay don't believe that's what the left, on his left and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's usually what it is the last part that coach meeting is kind of what we've always done here, the last couple.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But we'll clarify okay yeah.
Usera, Daniel: That makes sense, make sense, yes I have on march 11 on my calendar, I have feedback for slides and I had something about rehearsal to or some kind of practice.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
Usera, Daniel: I was expecting at least have slides for you all by.
Usera, Daniel: march 11 so it would make sense that probably the rehearsal if there is one it's going to be later yeah.
Usera, Daniel: Okay yeah let's have Mayra clarify that yeah okay anything else so on the administrative side we'll figure out the whole rehearsal thing.
Usera, Daniel: Did they have a rehearsal on march 11 or ideas have feedback for the slides on march 11 right or do they are they I thought we talked about them doing rehearsal too, but now i'm starting to.
Look.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Just your last meeting featuring you go through to do updates.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then from there, they haven't told the 22nd to turn in their final capstone slide.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And secondly, any feedback, you have Dr Sarah on the non technical review anything about the database.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, but there's no rehearsal there's no rehearsal on the 11th or anything like that it's just and i'm putting into also get a little feedback to write.
Usera, Daniel: This is so I guess we'll do all star, we have to do the administrative talk now, but just to make sure that we have the right tone for today is that right i'm coming in, on the 11th to to give all feedback.
Usera, Daniel: I thought we talked about them doing something like that, too, and that's why you see what's going to happen either on or after the 11th so it's later we can figure it out, but all about for sure i'll have feedback for slides by 11 so that way, the.
And then, it says zoom presentation capstone.
As if you're presenting it to your cohort and that consumer.
MS Analytics Class 2021: slide deck is doing a Google drive by March 11.
Usera, Daniel: OK, so the zoom.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, so the zoom recording doesn't happen on that day, but it starts to happen after that day, because I think they do it on their own time right they they get together as a cohort and then they just do it, and then submit the recording right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, ideally, they would have it done by the so that you have time to break those.
Usera, Daniel: Not the rehearsal i'll talk about the rehearsals yeah.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You tell me how long you need to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Start like.
Usera, Daniel: yeah so i'll be back for slides probably by Monday or Tuesday of next week and then I can do rehearsals anytime after that so um yeah so if we give a like a little period to just get together as a group.
Usera, Daniel: And then split the recording we can do that.
Karen Fireman: Okay, so I have a question it's Karen so each person has a half hour and they're going to send you 50 people times a half hour that's 25 hours of your time, Dr you Sarah that you're going to review these because we're not groups you keep saying group.
Karen Fireman: we're not groups right so it's 2050 individual half hour recordings is that what you're looking for.
Usera, Daniel: years.
Usera, Daniel: Is that right that.
Usera, Daniel: half hour, because then I will probably need more time to look at him.
Charles Swanson: And then know where exactly do we turn these in.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, so we'll have to figure that out.
Usera, Daniel: Mayra like hi to rehearsal part because now that that is a lot of questions to um but yeah for sure, slides you'll get feedback by the 11th.
Coleman, Clay: Monday 10 and then also if we're not technically finished with all of our slides that we do we just present what we have at that time and then because we still have another 10 days after that to work on final things and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we're gonna be looking for.
Jim Clark: Probably watch your videos at double time looking at your background.
and your body language.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Maybe some word choice generally general overview.
MS Analytics Class 2021: models.
Karen Fireman: To kind of give you some feedback, and these are graded assignments, or just option and what.
Karen Fireman: group zoom or the zoom and he's reviewing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Your practice run.
Karen Fireman: yeah and he's doing that on double time got it.
Usera, Daniel: yeah I won't be able to watch the whole thing of all of them already know that.
Usera, Daniel: But all these watch parts and you know, make sure that you know, whatever I do review and looks good so it's kind of those things where you don't know which part of the watch, so you want to make sure each part is good.
Usera, Daniel: Because you don't know if someone wants to beginning or the middle or the end so you got to be on point on all on all three aspects of the game, but.
Usera, Daniel: what's important is when we say groups, I mean like you're going to get in your car and you're going to present to your group to your cohort to a group of people, so that we don't stop presenting to yourself, is the idea.
Karen Fireman: And then I would want to we don't.
Karen Fireman: We don't present to our group you keep saying that.
Usera, Daniel: that's how we're going to do the rehearsals right where they're going to.
Coleman, Clay: Do.
Karen Fireman: I think minutes, with our group.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah when you do.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Your final capstone project you're imagining your audience as a couple that's the piece.
shadi kilani: um.
shadi kilani: Excuse me, could you please then send us sort of clear instructions or what needs to be delivered when and maybe where we should turn that in so we can make sure we do it on a timely way.
shadi kilani: yeah waiter.
shadi kilani: And you guys want it, so if you if you don't mind if you could send us a set of clear instructions we'd love to you know do that Thank you so much.
Usera, Daniel: yeah absolutely, so I think yeah let me, am I read sort all that out, and then we'll have something in writing, I always like things in writing.
Usera, Daniel: So we'll have it that way, and then you'll have deadlines and all that stuff and then probably submission if you're just by yourself.
Usera, Daniel: Like what you're imagining your audience, I thought you're going to do it in your groups and you're going to send the recording that way that way you have people to react to if you do it by yourself and you just do on pajamas.
Usera, Daniel: So, then you just do it there.
Usera, Daniel: So either way either way we'll figure it out well for out the logistics, but just know on the horizon, you have your slides and then you have a rehearsal and we want to be a dress rehearsal so make sure you're dressed up.
shadi kilani: So we'll do anything you ask us to do you want us to do a combination of just let us know what you want us to do that, it was about to do it.
Usera, Daniel: Thank you, well, I appreciate that I appreciate that um but yeah We definitely want to be.
Usera, Daniel: Complete so we definitely want you to have a full run through we want you to have a good practice So yes, complete presentation start to finish.
Usera, Daniel: So you don't want to have something that you didn't practice and then you do you show up on game day and then that part didn't go as expected just practice it so to make it complete make it useful and go from there.
Usera, Daniel: Okay anything else.
Karen Fireman: um yeah if you have some ideas for us on little pointers we should you know watch for for that presentation that would be useful.
Usera, Daniel: Oh yeah oh yeah.
Usera, Daniel: yeah go that's why they do list or something.
Karen Fireman: Maybe a list Thank you so much.
Usera, Daniel: yeah that's what today is about that's what it's about so I know we had a cancellation, I hope you all did okay through the power crisis and such in the winter storm.
Usera, Daniel: I think what we're what we're combining today is more on powerpoints and that and just more on virtual presenting, but I think we're going to put more focus on PowerPoint now.
Usera, Daniel: Did you all watch the or received at least received the video lectures on PowerPoint that I made I think you've got him a while back it was like December.
Karen Fireman: or January, yes, yes.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, so.
Usera, Daniel: there's a lot of ways we can tackle a PowerPoint we can, if you have some general questions you want to ask if not we can we can look at some slides and then go that way it's up to you.
Usera, Daniel: So do we does anybody have any questions about the lecture anything that we talked about there or general comments, and then we can go that way or I can show you some slides What would you prefer.
Usera, Daniel: Does anyone have any questions from the lecture or any comments things insights.
Jim Clark: Sure, I think, recently, you posted up a PowerPoint presentation talking about slide formats that that was an addition to your your three lectures is that right or.
Jim Clark: Because I pulled it down today, which is wild I didn't know if you were if you That was something you do put in and I just didn't downloaded or with with supplemental is I guess is what i'm asking.
Usera, Daniel: something about slide formats.
Jim Clark: Yes, Sir, it was about slide format, it was I thought it was supplemental to to your three YouTube lectures.
Jim Clark: So I I thought you were going to talk from that but that's that's fine.
Jim Clark: i've already monopolize too much time.
Usera, Daniel: Oh no you're fine you're Fine, let me clarify so yeah we have the.
Usera, Daniel: You have data visualization that should be the Green and White lecture series that you saw with all the Green and White slides and then there's PowerPoint which is like the orange and white slides so those Those are the two that you would be have one would have watched.
Usera, Daniel: So do you recall, like the orange.
Karen Fireman: This is there were three sets of.
Karen Fireman: slides that we did.
Usera, Daniel: I think.
Usera, Daniel: Originally, but also white was like this, so this is the the PowerPoint series, this would have been the cover and then the theme, so if you recall, this theme.
Karen Fireman: This the orange one I remember yeah.
Usera, Daniel: yeah, so this is what today's about, and then we had the one on virtual presenting, which was the white I don't have it pulled up or do I pulled up i'd have to see okay yeah this one, we already saw.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, and then this is virtual presenting, so you probably I know we talked about this in class and on data visualization was the green and white.
Usera, Daniel: So I color coded them to make it more easily to retrieve okay so.
Usera, Daniel: I don't have data is pulled up but yeah alright so here's we're going to do let's look at some slots well first let's Let me give some general comments or additional thoughts on PowerPoint and then we'll look at some slides and apply some principles that we learned from the lecture.
Usera, Daniel: So I think and there's a lot to go like i'm not going to obviously give the whole lecture again, but the one thing that I want you all to remember when it comes to powerpoints and specifically.
Usera, Daniel: What you learn from database is concept visualization so remember when we talked about data this we what we talked about visualizing concepts and type in textual ideas.
Usera, Daniel: You all remember that concept visualization and established the nodes relate the notes all those things those three steps are you all, recalling that.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, so part of what good PowerPoint is is it's better for the audience to see the point than to read the point.
Usera, Daniel: So one of my little maxims of powerpoints and I have like I have 10 different maxim's that I talked about with PowerPoint.
Usera, Daniel: Is it's better for the audience to see the point than to read the point remember the problem humans cannot read and listen, at the same time.
Usera, Daniel: The human brain is just not made that way you can't read and hit read speech and also listen to a speech at the same time you're either going to read and then.
Usera, Daniel: kind of put speech in the background or you're going to listen to the speech and you're not going to be able to read.
Usera, Daniel: So one of the principles of PowerPoint is you don't divide your audience's attention.
Usera, Daniel: You what you want to do is you want to keep the audience's attention focus on one particular thing now when you're giving a presentation.
Usera, Daniel: Obviously you're going to be talking through the presentation, so when you show visuals you want the visuals to be things that the audience can look at, but not necessarily have to read or think about they just see the point.
Usera, Daniel: So good PowerPoint is PowerPoint that I don't have to think about the design.
Usera, Daniel: Good PowerPoint is PowerPoint where I just see the point effortlessly and I can follow you while you talk, and so my brain isn't overwhelmed.
Usera, Daniel: The biggest problem people have, so this is called death by PowerPoint right what's death by PowerPoint, by the way, when you hear the phrase death by PowerPoint what is that.
Usera, Daniel: would that mean to you.
Jim Clark: it's all text.
Usera, Daniel: it's all text.
Usera, Daniel: Okay that's definitely one thing it's nothing but texts, so why is this a visual aid if it's all text.
shadi kilani: it's overwhelming, so you can't really see the point and you're just stuck there trying to find what the person is trying to say and you're trying to emulate what they're saying what's on the points where you can't really find what they're talking about in the slides.
Usera, Daniel: Yes, Okay, so we got two things so far super tasty right i'm reading the whole time so what's the point of having a presenter if i'm just going to read the slides okay.
Usera, Daniel: So, and yes bullets bullets bullets nothing but bullets there's no diversity it's there's no visualization going on it's just text it's textual transfer not textual digitalization okay information overload so thank you, thank you shoddy.
Usera, Daniel: Yes, information overload putting too much on the slides to where the audience can't process it information overload is a real problem, like a lot of people think oh it's going to be information overload no it's information overload.
Usera, Daniel: I just found out that air force air force pilots like jet fighter pilots, they have a little phrase in the air force it's called our pilots having a helmet fire, so a helmet fire is where the pilots helmet hud.
Usera, Daniel: presents a lot of information at once.
Usera, Daniel: And what sometimes happens is the pilot gets so overwhelmed with information they either start to freak out.
Usera, Daniel: or they become paralyzed because there's so much information being shown to them at the same time, and so on the radio they kind of like.
Usera, Daniel: And it's called a helmet fire like they start to go a little bit crazy so.
Usera, Daniel: On pilot helmets they have a complex mode and then a simple mode that simplifies the information, so the pilot can still act and make quick decisions without being overwhelmed by information so information overload is a real thing.
Usera, Daniel: And that's where I think a lot of powerpoints can go wrong or go badly is we put too much on the slide too much at once now we're in a technical field, and this is technical communication so we're going to have audiences who very much care about details.
Usera, Daniel: So.
Usera, Daniel: here's the little say that you can always remember.
Usera, Daniel: If you have to show everything do so, but you don't always have to show it all at once, you can show it in a sequence or you can give the audience time to look at something and then after they processed it then at a point.
Usera, Daniel: If you have to show everything then do so, but you don't always have to do it at once, is the idea and we're going to look at some sample before and after slides so that's what I have planned today.
Usera, Daniel: And they're actually from previous capstones of Ms analytics and we'll get to kind of see three principles only teach you three techniques.
Usera, Daniel: So I can't go over all the PowerPoint with you all, because that's there's just not enough time to do that so hopefully you'll watch the video lectures and you'll get a lot out of it.
Usera, Daniel: But well at least teach you three techniques, so when you go through your slide decks again.
Usera, Daniel: When you need to figure out how to simplify and to make things more visual and not so overwhelming and textual in death by PowerPoint on just those two definitions alone.
Usera, Daniel: Those three techniques will help you decide what's a good way to go, okay so that's one thing you will leave with today are three little techniques to help with your slides what else is death by PowerPoint mean I also saw monotone.
Usera, Daniel: vocal variety people vocal variety pitch pace and volume so have a good pitch very your pitch go little high go a little low.
Usera, Daniel: Just don't be one tone, the whole time because one telling the whole time gets really old, especially when your presentations or a half hour and we're going to be sitting through a half hour of people talking about data, of all things.
Usera, Daniel: And you're not really passionate about the topic so then when you're not really passionate about the topic it's like if you're not passionate, why should I be passionate.
Usera, Daniel: If you don't care, why should I care if you don't believe it, why should I believe it if you don't believe in the product, why should I buy the product if you don't care about if you don't if you sound like you don't care, then why do I, why should I care okay.
Usera, Daniel: All right, so yes vocal variety people energy have some enthusiasm, this is your project, how many hours have you all spent on NSA analytic on this on this capstone like how many hours have you have you logged in put in the chat how many hours have you logged already.
Usera, Daniel: On this capstone.
Wilson: You want to see that.
Usera, Daniel: Oh, I want to see, I want to see I did a dissertation I you know y'all.
Usera, Daniel: got like three years Okay, so one birthday three hours we had somebody I don't know how many zeros that is 60 plus.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, so we have a range of three hours to 100 to 100 to some degree of power hundred and 50 hours Okay, these are hours of your life you're never going to get back.
Usera, Daniel: i'm sure there were beautiful hours i'm sure you did a lot of great things and you did a lot of great analysis okay So these are hours that you, you gave up your life.
Usera, Daniel: So you should be proud of what you're about to show us there should be some excitement, there should be some passion, there should be some care because you put so much time into this.
Usera, Daniel: You should be upset if people look bored because you put so much time into this thing okay.
Usera, Daniel: So yes, have some passion it doesn't matter, even if it's a dispassionate topic or talking about oil it's okay what Why is oil important to me.
Usera, Daniel: As an audience, why should I care about oil and what you're going to do what's the why behind things just don't tell us what tell us why, why is this important to me so communicating with non technical people technical non technical people don't care about how they just care about why.
Usera, Daniel: So how you got to something they're dying, you know they're probably going to maybe understand it, maybe not.
Usera, Daniel: But if you say I did this analysis and here's why it's important it's important because, when you log on to the Internet, if you don't have this security, then a hacker can steal your credit card.
Usera, Daniel: Oh, people are gonna listen now now people care because you relate it to them.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, and yes, oil can be passionate listen if we don't pump enough oil, out of a well oil prices go up, so this new technique or this new analysis that I did can help us get more oil and be more efficient and also help the environment and save you money Okay, but now I care.
Usera, Daniel: So that's what you gotta do when you're communicating technical stuff to non technical people, why should they care, how does it relate to them.
Usera, Daniel: Be that bridge to make that relationship and people will listen, but if you just throw math and numbers and like what welcome you don't get it it's because you didn't relate it to them right into that.
Usera, Daniel: that's right, you can pay for oil using your credit cards, I get stolen by the hacker if you don't get cyber security So there you go.
Usera, Daniel: And bitcoin when it's when it's up its up in price that's right candle.
Usera, Daniel: Okay um.
Usera, Daniel: Other things other things, if not let's look at some techniques.
Usera, Daniel: Now i'll have to i'm not I don't have a degree in Ms analytics so the slides that I did I don't have all the knowledge of like.
Usera, Daniel: Because these are all based off using jump So if I took some liberties, you know you can mention them but.
Usera, Daniel: The techniques are more important to me, then, like getting the content right as far as i'm concerned i'm here just to teach you techniques.
Usera, Daniel: And then you will get the content right you all are the content experts so you'll know what you should substitute if if I did something wrong on to the data that kind of thing Okay, so let me just do a quick screen share here.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, so I want to put this in presentation mode.
Usera, Daniel: All right, can you all see the PowerPoint.
Usera, Daniel: overhead.
Wilson: Yes, sir.
Usera, Daniel: Alright, so let me show you three things that you can do to simplify your powerpoints and these and i've looked at a few capstones from the past, so if if I could go back to previous years and then just give like one little lecture or one little lesson, this would be the lesson okay.
Usera, Daniel: Now.
Usera, Daniel: So here's one from somebody.
Usera, Daniel: PowerPoint from somebody capstone so I don't think that the idea that Oh, the men that standards are low for capstone no no you're going to be higher, because now, I think, is now i'm here and Mars here and we're all we're all expecting new things and better things.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, so eating at the slide.
Usera, Daniel: So someone gets a presentation all right here's the business impact and then here's a bunch of lines.
Usera, Daniel: here's the business impact it allowed rsvp to own their budgets and they couldn't use though it was given to me excuse it allowed all sides to know why behind the numbers.
Usera, Daniel: before it was a more of a negotiation, because they had to negotiate things and now it's a collaboration and allowed regional Vice Presidents to focus on their controller bowls okay so what's good what's good about this slide or not good.
Jim Clark: It makes it really hard for all the slides to come after that one for people to hang with you.
Jim Clark: yeah it well, when I look at it, it looks like the stream of consciousness.
Jim Clark: But at the same time, if you've got to say it that way that's fine, but after that it's a real it's gonna be really hard to keep everyone's attention after this slide.
Jim Clark: If this first slide they see.
Usera, Daniel: I mean it's a lot of bullet points okay it's a lot of tax and yeah and some of these bullets I don't really know why they're their own bullets.
Usera, Daniel: Because, for example, allowed rv he's the owner budgets Okay, I guess the impact of the analysis is they're going to.
Usera, Daniel: And I guess to own their budgets means they're going to like take responsibility, so I don't know if that's the best word to own, but like.
Usera, Daniel: before it was more of a negotiation now with the collaboration now like, I feel like this could be one bullet point oops so I feel like this could be one bullet point you know.
Usera, Daniel: And loud all sides know the why behind the numbers, you know could, is there a way we can simplify that sentence, so we don't have that lingering word beneath so as we're going through here.
Usera, Daniel: Like is there a way to get rid of this can we simplify this can we combine these two are there ways that we can just reduce some of the text here and to make it more simple, to the point.
Usera, Daniel: bullets and I think, so I think so, so one technique that you can easily learn, and you probably have heard this one before it's just simplification.
Usera, Daniel: When you're going to show a lot of texts or you're going to show a lot of data.
Usera, Daniel: Is there a way to put things in a more simplified format where it's still conveys the same information just more efficient.
Usera, Daniel: You just want to be efficient, with PowerPoint you don't want to waste space you don't want to add things that can draw the audience's attention away from the points are trying to make.
Usera, Daniel: A good slides going to have good focus, so if I was doing this slide and i'm not the content expert of this person's capstone so once again i'm taking some liberties here, but if I was the content, if I assumed I was for a second.
Usera, Daniel: One thing I could do.
Usera, Daniel: Take the themes of the bullet points and just categorize them into larger themes and then give the larger theme category as your bullet point.
Usera, Daniel: And then explain the subcategories Orly because remember the PowerPoint is you presenting it so it's okay if there's just the major category.
Usera, Daniel: theme or header and then you can explain the the supporting information under it, this is a lot easier to follow, because this is a lot less to read that all this and each bullet point is really short and it acts as a prompt for me to have to talk off of and to say what I want to say.
Okay.
Usera, Daniel: All right, so that's one option for sure, but then, if I were to go another level i'm a huge fan of smart art and hopefully like when you watch the video lectures, if you haven't already.
Usera, Daniel: smarter it's a beautiful thing because smart arts, you can use smart our list because essentially what this slide is this slide is a list right it's three disparate bullet points.
Usera, Daniel: So the conceptual relationship here that's being displayed or just three independent items, so in that case you can use a smart list, and so I would just do something like this and see here's what I did.
Usera, Daniel: I put it in a sequential order so I said discovered the Why is probably the first thing right which probably enabled collaboration and then led to.
Usera, Daniel: affirmative a regional Vice President, responsibility and all of this is a good thing right, so I would want to sell this is not just business impact, but games because impacts can go both ways an impact can be negative or an impact can be positive.
Usera, Daniel: If i'm wanting to say that my capstone projects going to have a positive impact, I don't want to call it, in fact I wanna call it gains, I want to emphasize the positive.
Usera, Daniel: So something like this still gets the point across and it shows it too, because it shows the relationship between the listed bullet points as opposed to just listing information.
Usera, Daniel: It establishes a relationship between all the nodes on the slide so that's what concept visually the concept visualization is about it's about taking concepts and visualizing the relationships between them, so you can make your point more quickly and rely less on text and more on digital's.
Usera, Daniel: Okay questions so far or concerns.
Wilson: Okay, so okay now quick question um are you going to see, but what is your take on animation and transitions.
Usera, Daniel: So animations as far as making progressive slides I think animations are good for that.
Usera, Daniel: There are animations like spinning stuff that you probably don't want to use unless there's really a context for it, but your basic appear you're a basic fade your basic.
Usera, Daniel: Just quick moving animation is totally fine to make a progressive slide and do we all remember what a progressive slide is.
Jim Clark: Okay, so that's the slide where you basically keep adding to the slide as you're moving it forward so you click you make a point you click and then something else comes into slide, and so it builds as you talk through it.
Usera, Daniel: Yes.
Wilson: So the rest of slide will stay.
Usera, Daniel: With a small amount of information and then through clicks without changing slides it'll.
Usera, Daniel: add more information so pretty much every slide deck i've ever done that's a progressive slide.
Usera, Daniel: Now.
Usera, Daniel: So animations are good for that and then some transitions are really good too.
Usera, Daniel: And in the PowerPoint lecture you'll see like the power of like the morph transition and how it can create uniformity and the push left transition when you're doing like a timeline and you want the slides to look contiguous or continuous then.
Usera, Daniel: push left transition can make the slide look like it's one slide when in fact it's too, so there, there is a context also for transitions as well.
Usera, Daniel: So, but yes, not every feature on PowerPoint is one that you necessarily should use because, like there are some once again transitions that are probably too.
Usera, Daniel: Too much motion for a zoom presentation, where it'll look choppy or animations that just take too long or kind of distracting so.
Usera, Daniel: You kind of have to use judgment on which ones that you think are good or bad, but in principle animations and transitions can be a good thing, just.
Usera, Daniel: As long as there's judgment used as far as which ones you use does that make sense, so it's not a question of good or bad it's which ones you use and which ones, do you not use.
Wilson: yeah.
Usera, Daniel: And then somebody asked about smart art so i'm a huge fan of smarter because it just it's it makes so many things simpler, because it just makes a template for you, for, especially for conceptual visualization so i'm a huge fan of it.
Usera, Daniel: If, for some reason, but there are limitations to PowerPoint smart art, as far as sometimes they're not super customizable and then sometimes you can't make them progressive, in which case, then I resort to draw tools, so my best friends and PowerPoint or draw tools icons and smart arts.
Usera, Daniel: Because I want to conceptually visualize as much as I can, and realize little attacks as tax as possible, given what i'm trying to do.
Usera, Daniel: Okay.
Usera, Daniel: All right next here's another slide.
Usera, Daniel: So what's good about this slide.
Jim Clark: Well it's.
Jim Clark: it's good it's good it's got lots of color in this guy white blue and red So you see patterns.
Jim Clark: So that's what I can say that's good.
Karen Fireman: yeah i'm actually really.
Karen Fireman: glad Dr Sarah could I ask a question it's Karen.
Usera, Daniel: Okay.
Karen Fireman: yeah I just heard some actually really.
Karen Fireman: i'm actually really glad you showed this slide because, for most of us this does represent some of the work that we did, and one of the many models that we looked at and it's wonderful to see you talk about this, because if we're not supposed to show this, I really do want to know that.
Usera, Daniel: Oh yeah you definitely have to show this your so part of your constraints.
Usera, Daniel: As a PowerPoint it or as your career capstone is you're going to probably have to use screenshots as my understanding, you can't rename things on PowerPoint or excel.
Usera, Daniel: or tablo or anything like that so you're probably going to have to show screenshots and so yeah that's one of your constraints, so we definitely don't want you to violate that constraint, so the question is.
Usera, Daniel: what's the best way to show.
Usera, Daniel: This, however, is there is there a way we can improve this slide.
Nick Luthman: Right now, it feels like we're putting a bunch of things at once onto the screen so maybe sequence it.
Usera, Daniel: Ah, OK so maybe sequence it maybe too much information travis said too much on one slide now here's one of my concerns with the slide.
Usera, Daniel: Because you're relying heavily on screenshots it's not a problem this year, because most people are are going to be virtual I think your private messages are hundred percent virtual so.
Usera, Daniel: On virtual presentations the viewing distance for the audience is like you know, two feet from the screen right for most virtual presentation, though people only said about to one to two feet away from their computer screens.
Usera, Daniel: But when you're presenting for alive large audience and a large room with a projector screen and that sometimes texts like this on a screen.
Usera, Daniel: can be really hard to read and you might have been in those situations before where like you couldn't read the text because it was so small, because it comes from a screenshot like this, so.
Usera, Daniel: One thing that you can do is separation so who called that who is that that that call that separating it out.
Usera, Daniel: If you don't want to have information overload on a slide and you want to have room to make things bigger just separate.
Usera, Daniel: So here's how I might redo this is, I have model, one linear regression i'm even going to have like a little preview picture of it.
Usera, Daniel: And then i'll have the training side, Nice and big for you, you can read all the text, you can see, this is much bigger than what was seen on the previous slide.
Usera, Daniel: And then, if I want this to show up later I can make this progressive if I want and then this will show up, you can read everything very clearly, can you not.
Karen Fireman: And so, can I ask a question about it it's character so go back to the one before for a.
Second.
Karen Fireman: No, no, that one know the weren't you going to put i'm sorry did I miss that one so we're making two slides out of it we're having that and the next one on this one model, this one point that is.
well.
Usera, Daniel: yeah, so this is a sectional slide, so this is just introducing the model, so this was just a nice little pretty cover slide for it.
Usera, Daniel: So then, if you were showing the data, you would separate it into two slides so we're going to have this be nice and big and you can talk through it, you can say here's what I did for training.
Usera, Daniel: And then here's what I did for validation and then you can talk about it show us if you don't need to spend a lot of time on it, if it's just like a two second thing a three second thing that's Okay, at least we can still see it, and we can read it.
Usera, Daniel: And then, if you want to add a thesis at the top, you can put a thesis at the top.
Usera, Daniel: The model trains and validates a significance level or whatever the thesis is i'm not sure what the what the thesis is, in this case, but let's just say it was that, but the thesis at the top.
Usera, Daniel: And then Compare that to this, you can see, you can read that part better and then you'll probably ask about this well we'll get to this in a second, but you understand how bigger is better and then plus at these at the top very easy to talk through.
Usera, Daniel: Now, if you have slide limits, then you got to think slide economy.
Usera, Daniel: If there's some slides where you think I think it's Okay, if this is all in one slide because i'm not gonna.
Usera, Daniel: i'm not really expecting them to take everything in.
Usera, Daniel: or I just i'm going to give them five or 10 seconds to read everything, so what you're going to do is when you have a long quote slide or large data slider so i'm going to give you a couple seconds to look at this so just go ahead and take a look.
Usera, Daniel: You know, take a SIP of the drink let people look at it okay so here's what you probably should have seen if, when you look at this side.
Usera, Daniel: You see this, and if you see look at this chart you should see that, and so what I did was I took that and I took this and then I got to this conclusion.
Usera, Daniel: So, think of them as long quote slides so in PowerPoint, how do you handle long quote slides give them time ask somebody to read it or read it yourself, so in this case with data probably give them some time to look at it.
Usera, Daniel: But yes you're gonna have to think slide economy for sure.
Usera, Daniel: Now the last technique is sequential ization let's say for slide economy reasons you don't you can't separate everything the way you want to.
Usera, Daniel: So you have to put everything on one slide or let's say that.
Usera, Daniel: For people to really understand the data that they're looking at, they have to have a holistic picture like they have to see everything at once on one page otherwise like they'll miss something.
Usera, Daniel: So I understand, sometimes losing that strategic view could be a loss Okay, if you have to that if you have to squeeze everything on one slide, and this is like a last resort, but it can work.
Usera, Daniel: So start out by just telling the story of whatever the data you're showing so you can say a few outliers found with the if under 10.
Usera, Daniel: And then talk through the first point, and still make it big you know you can still read it, you can read the text and then talk through the second point, as you go through the second one.
Usera, Daniel: And then talk through the third one, as you go through the third one.
Usera, Daniel: And then, when you're done with that then talk to before now, if I took some liberties here i'm not an expert i'm not a content expert on what's important what's not.
Usera, Daniel: But if I were to try to fit it in and try to make it big that's probably what I would do and then just sequentially reveal each point, as I go and then let the audience take it in that next thing, let them take it in next thing, so we go back to that principle of you're feeding a child.
Usera, Daniel: Doing PowerPoint especially data like this stuff that's difficult to understand stuff that you have to really look at and to really process is like feeding a child.
Usera, Daniel: You put some food in the child's mouth you let them to you let them swallow, then you put some more food in what you don't do is dump the whole baby jar onto the baby's mouth, because they choke and the audience chokes if you try to dump too much information.
Usera, Daniel: Now.
Usera, Daniel: In this is where going back to transitions So if I want to do, like a continuous slide, this is a push left so if if people are like well I need to see the.
Usera, Daniel: The training and validation okay well you just go back and forth between the two, and then you can look at training and validation that way.
Usera, Daniel: And that's pretty much it so In summary, simplification separation and sequential ization.
Usera, Daniel: simplify try to categorize things put things in categories have the larger points and then you talk through the points separation.
Usera, Daniel: If you can separate some things so you can make the screenshots bigger and more legible and give them thesis and data and that time of day.
Usera, Daniel: And then separate them so they can there can be more focused on the slide great.
Usera, Daniel: If you can't separate then sequential eyes and then talk through each important data point that you need to talk through and then tell and then you kind of tell a data story, as you go through each slide.
Usera, Daniel: And you can paste it out to if one side is sort of like a premise slide where it's not important, but it's like it's just a small premise, then you can time it so you only spend five six seconds on it.
Usera, Daniel: As far as like your practice your time your practice that way, so you just give a quick, short explanation, so we can see it, and then, so you can spend more time on the bigger the bigger fish, if you will.
Usera, Daniel: But those would be the three things I would recommend that you do in your PowerPoint.
Usera, Daniel: Okay.
Usera, Daniel: Questions about it or concerns do so if you have concerns, I don't know like this is time to also bring up concerns to.
Usera, Daniel: or ask questions or for further ideas or.
Nick Luthman: So i've never used.
Karen Fireman: Good.
Nick Luthman: So, you mentioned the term smart art and you showed, there were kind of those as like the organizational diagram and a few things they kind of show what the spirit of the blurb was is that something that's built into PowerPoint or are there collected those.
Usera, Daniel: So, right here on PowerPoint let's go to smart art and then you have different types of conceptual relationships.
Usera, Daniel: So this is where visual grammar comes into play, you have to know exactly how the data relates, and then you got to know what's the appropriate diagrams and use.
Usera, Daniel: So is it like some kind of mutually influential relationship or one or is it a process is a cyclical relationship or it's a cycle, where it goes over and over, then you would do something like this it's more like well it's not like a cycle, but it's more like.
Usera, Daniel: Perhaps it's a hierarchy like one things important or.
Usera, Daniel: it's it's a three it's like a mutual influence it's like a triad like it goes through both all three directions that kind of thing, and you can also make it for you can add you know, and all that stuff too, if you want.
Usera, Daniel: So you have to really know what exactly it is you're trying to say and that's the beauty of visual grammar and concept visualization is it forces you to think.
Usera, Daniel: How what exactly, am I trying to say and how can I show i'm trying to say so, I just saw a presentation, the other day for a case competition, and I was helping this team practice and they used.
Usera, Daniel: Infrastructure leads so fast, so what they use listening, a new slide so you don't get you can see everything.
Usera, Daniel: And let me make this blank actually Okay, so this this presenter was talking about how she was a connector of things, and she saw herself as making a lot of connections, the smart art she used.
Usera, Daniel: Was this and she said i'm a connector I connect science, art and like no just these five different topics it was like four different topics, but, basically, I saw connection between this this and this.
Usera, Daniel: But technically this doesn't necessarily show connection that you make those connections, this can show that these are self connecting.
Usera, Daniel: If you want to show that you the individual or the connector, then what you probably want to use I would think in that case is something like this, where you're at the Center or something like this.
Usera, Daniel: where you have you connecting the four different things.
Usera, Daniel: You see, because if you compare this.
Usera, Daniel: To the previous one.
Usera, Daniel: Some reasons one replaced it sorry if you compare that to the previous one, you can draw different implications about what it means to be a connector right.
Usera, Daniel: So it's like those subtle things that you just don't think about as far as like yeah what am I trying to say and what would lead to the right impression, and how do you prevent the myth, the more of a misinterpretation.
Usera, Daniel: So that's that's the beauty of concept visualization but then you can see the points quicker because it's visual it's not textual.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, are there any other PowerPoint questions, by the way, like technical questions like how do I do X or Y or Z.
Usera, Daniel: If I can answer those as well.
Usera, Daniel: And then, let me give you a something that I guess students really appreciate whenever I teach it okay so.
Usera, Daniel: When you make your deck I highly recommend you make your own theme, make a theme that makes sense, with the topic that you're presenting.
Usera, Daniel: For these capstones you're presenting for company right about a company.
Usera, Daniel: To me automatically, it makes sense to probably use the company's colors you know if the company is green white use green and white, because you're presenting on behalf of that company.
Usera, Daniel: But if, like the industry is interesting, like maybe you're presenting for sports maybe you're presenting for nfl or something, are you presenting for.
Usera, Daniel: St patrick's day then yeah green makes sense because it's about pay patrick's day I mean.
Usera, Daniel: pick something that makes sense, with the topic what you don't want to do is use a generic template that you've seen 30 times already so droplets are like the weird ones with the colors and the abstracts on the top now.
Usera, Daniel: When you make your slide my favorite thing ever saved a lot of time is the slide master you go to view and you go to slide master here.
Usera, Daniel: And with the slide master if you go the top slide This is like the top hierarchical slide.
Usera, Daniel: You can make it so that you don't have to keep going back each time to change your slot to make a slight theme, so this is going to create a whole template for you.
Usera, Daniel: And really easily, I want to stay away from these things because we've seen all of these a jillion times and this shows low effort.
Usera, Daniel: Just think Okay, what makes sense for my presentation color wise is my company like on the green side on the yellow side the orange side.
Usera, Daniel: Like what colors do you associate with your topic so let's just say we're going to do that, and you know just you can just do a little phil color here you don't have to or sorry that was a text color let me go to.
Usera, Daniel: feel color here Okay, so you can do like a shape fill color here, and then you can do like a little blue if you want, I mean i'm just making up something as I go.
Usera, Daniel: And then you know, change the text color there you go Okay, so we got some color going on all right.
Usera, Daniel: And maybe you want to keep that way I don't know light on lights and that usually not good, so you probably want to stay to a dark so you do like a dark blue.
Usera, Daniel: And of course calibrates the default font let's let's go something besides default.
Usera, Daniel: Well, what font makes sense for what you're trying to present about oh no what's a good fun that represents or speaks to the theme that you're speaking about okay I don't know I don't know it depends on the presentation so maybe yeah not we use.
Usera, Daniel: comic sans okay if you're you know comic sans a kind of informal type So if you think this is like a fun do comic sans so here's the thing fonts type geography is voice for text, just like how early, we have a voice that.
Usera, Daniel: highlights a specific emotion or idea.
Usera, Daniel: fonts also are a voice for text so think about that, like what's the voice that you want your text to have and what font best represents the voice that you want it to have.
Usera, Daniel: You guys are doing comic sans okay fine and then you can do things on the background, if you want to have a nice background, you can do something there.
Usera, Daniel: I mean there's all kinds of stuff we do play with the side nicer now here's the beauty of the slide master one thing I recommend is before we get to the beauty of the slide master.
Usera, Daniel: For technical presentations because that's what you all, are doing, I recommend that you have.
Usera, Daniel: slide numbers at the bottom of your of your slides so you do is header footer slide number.
Usera, Daniel: The reason you want to have slide numbers is because, when, at the end of the presentation it's time to do Q amp a it's so much easier if you can just say, can you please go to slide seven as opposed to.
Usera, Daniel: Can you go back to that one slide with that one chart is the one it's a person, then you have to click through you know you don't talking about and it's just a real pain to do Q amp a.
Usera, Daniel: slide number at the bottom, you know and it'll look Nice and we're going to do that okay now here's the beauty of the slide master when we're done with it we just go to slide master and we close it.
Usera, Daniel: And then now whenever I make a new slide it's already made and the color and the font and the scheme that i've already established early on.
Usera, Daniel: you're not going back and having a great color everything and you made your own template and it's not the one that we've seen 30 times already from the defaults.
Usera, Daniel: And now it looks original and now it looks creative and now it looks like he put some effort into it, you put some thought into it all you're going to have some good in it you're gonna make a good impression just on image alone and that's how you went audiences.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, did you all see that y'all see I did that it's under view and then slide master the slide masters your best friend well, you have a lot of best friends and power by your side master is a great friend for sure.
Usera, Daniel: Any other technical questions about PowerPoint.
Shadi Kilani: So, just a quick question when you were saying low effort and all of this, are you referring to the design healthcare thing is that what you're referring to.
Usera, Daniel: yeah you know, like people like it.
Shadi Kilani: Because you know design ideas that you're not necessarily just clicking and you know it takes a lot of thought, sometimes in some of these effects, I don't know how to do.
Shadi Kilani: You have you have relied on that I know I know what you mean you don't want to sound like.
Shadi Kilani: You don't want to have the same icons like everyone else, and.
Usera, Daniel: yeah so does it gets gets interesting because.
Usera, Daniel: When you make your own theme sometimes design ideas will do something that's in that that is consistent with your theme and then, in which case you can use it.
Usera, Daniel: But sometimes his ideas comes up like it doesn't honor your theme, so you have one slide that looks a certain way, and then design ideas of different color different font.
Usera, Daniel: So it's okay uses idea, sometimes I think.
Usera, Daniel: I wouldn't make your whole presentation design does because it's not always going to do what you wanted to do, the problem is designed us to they're not super modifiable sometimes I see a design idea i'm like Oh, I like that, but I can't change this thing, so I can't use it.
Shadi Kilani: yeah it has limitations you're right times, if I like a certain thing I would duplicate the slide and then.
Shadi Kilani: Because you're like it's not consistent it doesn't really suggest the same theme across and you could have one going to the life and the other one going to the left yeah you can't just use it as is right.
Usera, Daniel: So and that's why I mean that's why I think it's better to learn how to make your own themes, because then you have all the control.
Usera, Daniel: So, and once again what most people do when they're not experienced PowerPoint they just go straight to this and then that's what you end up seeing.
Usera, Daniel: A lot of times, and so what I want you all to use and stand out a little more by having your own design that you control and you have all the same, and you're not a slave to the template or you're not you know subservient to the design against.
Shadi Kilani: Is that if we made some edits.
Shadi Kilani: Are we able to update what we.
Shadi Kilani: Because I think you know I want to get your feedback on my latest.
Shadi Kilani: slide deck and i'm sure other colleagues have already or you're willing to open up the turning in of the slides So if I have a newer one because I made a lot of updates since the last time so whatever feedback you give me now might not be as relevant to us.
Usera, Daniel: yeah i've only looked at I just started I just opened them today, I didn't look that one I think I looked at one just actually looked at one yesterday, I think that I haven't looked at any so.
Usera, Daniel: If you want to withdraw, I think you can withdraw your submission and then just upload a new one.
Usera, Daniel: it's because i'm probably and even tomorrow I probably be able to look till tomorrow evenings we have consulting challenge tomorrow so yeah again if you want to just I think I think the settings on blackboard alive you that if they don't let me know and then we'll make it happen.
Usera, Daniel: If you.
Usera, Daniel: did your best stuff I want to see whatever you have that's good and all that.
Karen Fireman: Data to Syrians Karen I guess concerns I have a little bit of a concern, some of us have been building our slide decks for the last 14 or 13 months.
Karen Fireman: And we've already built them we've already got our theme we've already got you know we're one minute away we're at 1159 and 30 seconds and you're telling us to redo the whole thing.
Karen Fireman: pretty much are.
Usera, Daniel: Well, I mean just saying like look.
Karen Fireman: At other concern.
Usera, Daniel: I mean it with the site master you can go, you can do it retroactively to so you don't have to redo all your your text in your you don't have to redo all your graphs and such.
Usera, Daniel: When you do the slide nice right, you should be able to apply it to all the slides you made so it would just change the colors of everything you might have to do a quick audit of the new slides of it once you apply it.
Karen Fireman: By mainly what we have.
Usera, Daniel: we're like what you have to the neck, like, I just want you to like what you have so i'm just giving you ideas so.
Usera, Daniel: You know, like I said I recommend make your own template because I think it'll look good it'll it'll show that you know tie into the company you don't have to have the problems of.
Usera, Daniel: being limited by a certain template that you didn't make that kind of stuff so you know it's all optional and according to Meijer, I guess there's a basic MSA template already so you can use that but it doesn't take that much time, I mean you saw be just a very basic template.
Usera, Daniel: Just about once I talked so I mean it's up to you it's up to you at the end, the day I just want to see you what's more important to me is that your slides are simplified separated and sequential eyes.
Usera, Daniel: i'm like more interested in that and that you're good at communicating the ideas, clearly and quickly.
Usera, Daniel: So that's your goal and out of this quickly and clearly what's the point every slide quickly and clearly these is at the top down at the bottom, these are the top down at the bottom what's the point at the top here's the support thesis support.
Usera, Daniel: So yeah don't don't get too caught up on themes inside if you're already all the way through, then you know you're all the way through, but if you want to go back and you know put that extra step in and.
Usera, Daniel: Give it give it a look, give a nice look, I mean the slide master like I said, can be applied retroactively so and then you just have to go through and make sure everything looks good, and if you have to.
Usera, Daniel: rearrange some furniture or rearranging furniture, but it's not you don't have to start from zero.
Usera, Daniel: That makes sense.
Wilson: He does professor at things I mean you know very nice tips, I have to go and read their minds, you realize that I was too wordy and and to hear me.
Usera, Daniel: say it again.
Wilson: I just realized this conversation that has too many wars and also was too much information and he says, I so it was very helpful to to release my slides.
Usera, Daniel: Oh good good good yeah and so at the end of the day, there's going to be times when you might have to be a little bit testy like.
Usera, Daniel: When you show law or you show policy you can't visualize law like you can't visualize the fourth amendment with like a lock and key or something like you have to show the text right, so I don't want to say all text is bad.
Usera, Daniel: But it's just we try to limit the amount of text too much text too much reading as bad as what we are trying to get away from and being visual is good.
Usera, Daniel: So that's where we want to be, because after all it's a visual aid, not a textual eight.
Usera, Daniel: it's better for the audience to see it than to read it.
Usera, Daniel: Okay okay right seven o'clock I don't want to take the.
Usera, Daniel: festers time but I appreciate all the questions I always love presenting to Ms analytics you all have great comments there's always some humor in the chat the other class to they have some funny people in there, too, so it's always a.
Usera, Daniel: So there's that must be like a personality thing or something and they'll asked great questions, so I look forward to what you all do and i'll start looking at it tomorrow evening.
Usera, Daniel: late afternoon, if you want to resubmit resubmit but my goal with your feedback is to just help you get better give you ideas on the non technical guy so listen to your coach, whatever your coach tells you is probably right.
Usera, Daniel: To so you know you'll have to negotiate some things you have to negotiate some things but that's that's the that's the life of a communicator is you get a lot of opinions.
Charles Swanson: Thank you very much.
Usera, Daniel: yeah Thank you and thank you for all the great questions and I will look forward to seeing you all soon.
Shadi Kilani: Thank you.
Usera, Daniel: yep can I.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All right, thank you.
Karen Fireman: Thank you.
Brian Frankel: Thank you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: alright.
MS Analytics Class 2021: hey Brian you're real big on the screen for a second alright, so I need to get everything set up over here on the screen.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That was probably a lot to digest i'm sure you want to break for 10 minutes so it's five after let's start at 715.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we'll go to nine we'll talk about data bricks of have time i'll show you some stuff and azure but if I don't have time i'll just add it to the video i'm going to make for you forget and devops.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And already have a plasma show you already have recorded all the stuff i'm going to make a video already have recorded so i'm going to put it all together for you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And one video and upload it but take two minute break some 15 will start give me a second just to get my slides and everything up over here and we'll we'll start back in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And 10 minutes.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So under the just real quick, I noticed that Dr hartman who will have you starting next Thursday.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Hello pick it up y'all hear me it's on, I know, but the gap very well.
Amanda Pham: We can hear you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: can hear me Okay, thank you remember.
Jim Clark: me loud and clear.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All right, perfect thanks thanks Joe alright, so I noticed Dr hartman put out a syllabus update for his half of the class and if you click on that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: you'll notice that my phone is ringing from a thing right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: At the ratio of Sorry, I have to reshare one second we're sharing over here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I know how to share not over yet I still find that that's got to find the the one where it was me share.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah I think it is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I think it is no I moved over here, why is it not coming up sorry you having some technical difficulties.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm not sure why yeah you can just say what all, let me pull this back.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Oh yeah sorry sorry I was looking for was that little that little thing there okay sorry guys and gals the zoom was hidden hiding behind me I don't know how it got shared.
Okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we're sharing screen one hi okay sorry somebody in the sheer went away I don't know why okay so y'all can see the screen now, thank you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, all right so um Dr hartman put out this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: ignore that that's what I want to point out is he's changed a little bit of his stuff just for his that that part that says, Dr hartman's half.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This look at that half for his what your new for him he'll he'll explain all that I was going to get it, I just don't want you to look at this and see oh wait, I thought you said, there is no assignment dude right three yeah that's still true, for my part of the class.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is the syllabus you want to worry about right so, for my part of the class and you can see, Simon three is canceled canceled I give you all 100 I don't want to I don't want to like if I think he's cutting one out to just because of things and so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I don't want to cut it out that's not fair to you all to only give you three assignments so i'm going to give you all hundreds for that one, and then only thing you have left is project, one which will be about data bricks and so that'll be due on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And that being said so follow you that turn your homework and on time for wanting to thank you, you all can get a full hundred percent credit for those of you who didn't you'll want to turn homework on into and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And and i'll give you to the 18th I will take 10 points off, but an it is better than zero so, especially when you start getting optimization You see, you have 12345 you have quite a few assignments, I promise you they'll be harder so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I know you all have a lot going on with storms those you live in Houston area with capstones and calvin's and work and everything so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Understand that For those of you that go on time, you get a full hundred percent credit, as far as the possibility of getting 100 itself degrade them.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But for those that are late i'll take 10 points off i'll give you the 18th to turn them in but I highly recommend you tournament.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Just because you know how things go as you get on the rest of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The semester you're gonna get very excited at the end, and you might not want to do the last homework and then you're like man I wish i'd done it easy homework.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That Dr Johnston gave us and Python so now, I have to do this hard one for Dr hartman for optimization.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because it is a little bit harder because it's something that's going to be new probably little different for you then.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So That being said, I haven't read your homework, I promise i'll get it done this weekend, I think, tomorrow, he can't put this down, so I won't go do it tomorrow, but I won't get it done this weekend assignments one and two, and so, but i'm sure you're all did well so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All right, so let's get started we'll jump into.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To data bricks and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And let's go, so I get the PowerPoint backup y'all can see that just fine, let me see if the clicker works.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah it works alright cool i'll see that okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All right, so welcome howdy like I said earlier, for those of you that joined a minute late after the break this is my last class with you i've really enjoyed.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All you've been great.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and participating and listening and so hopefully you learned a lot I do owe you one more class that I will record, you can watch it at your leisure, I will recommend you know don't forget to download all this all the videos and all that before it before you check out of here in May.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because this stuff's still relevant hopefully when you leave so data bricks week seven so here's an outline talk about patchy spark a little bit about what it is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: introduction to data bricks.
MS Analytics Class 2021: pi spark blah blah, this is the boring slide that Dr you Sarah just said don't have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: to outline boring like i've already lost you so we'll just go right into what we're talking about and I go so Apache spark So what is it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So Apache spark was a product, I believe, on a Berkeley uc Berkeley I used to always know that, but I just forgot, but it was a project to basically build a super high performance large scale data processing analytics engine as part of the ecosystem, so it was called Apache spark.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Data bricks, which is what i'm in mostly what i'm going to focus on tonight.
MS Analytics Class 2021: showing you how that works is built off Apache spark so the people that design Apache spark this high performance multi node clustering super high scale data processing analytics you know model building.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A product, the people that built that started a company called data bricks and so data bricks is a web only based so it runs in the you interface, and you do everything from the web.
MS Analytics Class 2021: browser it runs in the cloud so it's a cloud only product so there's not like a what we call on premise there's not a version that runs inside of your data Center per se right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It all runs in azure as Amazon web services azure and as of two, three weeks ago, Google cloud platform, so all three cloud port platforms support data bricks.
MS Analytics Class 2021: They all work and look about the same between the three clouds so data bricks is its own company and they use the azure the Amazon the Google cloud platform.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To run their product time and so in every one of those companies Google Amazon and Microsoft.
MS Analytics Class 2021: treat it as a first classes and like it's their own it's like it's one of their own type of products right so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It doesn't get like less special treatment because it's not a Google product or an Amazon product or an azure product it's treated as a first class citizen in those cloud environments and gets special love and attention just like every other you know product that runs in the cloud.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It is again so you will see.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Apache spark and different hadoop environments and different things that people built data bricks is not a one for one of Apache spark.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What they what they do is they contribute to open source Apache spark is an open source product data bricks as a company is like the major contributor.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To that Apache spark Open Source product that you can go and download and use for free and and whatnot and run into do clusters, or by itself.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But they hold back some of their special sauce and special features just for their data bricks products so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Last week I mentioned a product called as your sin Apps analytics I showed you a slide.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It will run a patchy spark it doesn't run data bricks inside of azure and sin Apps analytics it actually runs the open source.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Apache spark so the code and all that looks pretty much the same, I mean it does look the same it's pie spark or scala or our sparkly our Python.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All the codes, the same it's just they have some extra features and different things that data bricks has, on top of the standard Apache spark that they put into.
MS Analytics Class 2021: flexi Cameron that they put out into the open source world they have some special things that are run a little faster and and how they implement their workspaces and all that i'll show you this in a second.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know they have a whole wrapper around how the product works and it's all built to run Nice and tight inside the Web inside these cloud environments is what data bricks so data bricks is Apache spark and more so to speak, so we'll go through the different components so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So gentle introduction of data so i'm just going to jump in and start demoing it and show you a little bit of it looks like go through some more slides DEMO some more code so i'm going to take and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: open up this link here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: let's move this all the way here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: find my chrome.
MS Analytics Class 2021: No worry about these links cuz.
MS Analytics Class 2021: worry about the link and piping i'll show you in a second that I have this all written down for you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I just want to get the product open, I meant to open this at the break.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When I forgot to open when I was like I hope and everything, but one thing so don't say.
MS Analytics Class 2021: go away bookmarks alright so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let me get this split out so i'm going to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: split up these screens, so I can see them.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Alright, so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I have this general introduction to Apache spark open up right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then over here on the right side, right here, this is the Community free edition of data, so the cool thing about data REX is they give you access to go set up and run.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Your own free version of data bricks and the cloud know in the Community edition it actually runs in Amazon web services.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In this it's a free like it's one or two node cluster that you can run, and so it will run for two hours and then, if you're not using it it'll shut down and terminate.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But all the cool stuff is is the cool thing is is everything will still stay in your workspace, then the communication data bricks and you can go back.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And restart up your restart up a new cluster and work with your code so i'm gonna walk through what all that well, that means in like what each things as far as the cluster but the thing is cool thing is like said you'll be able to use this you don't need to put a credit card.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In the in the downloads I have a word Doc that's for your project and the project.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Word Doc I literally walk wine pipeline what you need to do to complete the project, including how to go the weight and the link to go and set up the free edition of data bricks i'll just show you actually instead of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Talking, let me just show you because I have it open here so i'm not going to talk about the project just yet, and my site project is really just homework but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But just to show you like, I have go to hear set up the Community edition and spring strong sign up with your taboo, you know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: create a cluster I walk you through everything you know use this important in you know do all this i'ma show you all this DEMO in a second, but what.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I want to make right now is is I literally give you, step by step directions like you're reading a blog post of like, how can I.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know, create my first data bricks project, you know and put my data and right so literally, this is, this is the homework and six pages.
MS Analytics Class 2021: you'll walk through it and it's really the same type of thing you're going to import my example red wine data quality thing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you're going to make it your own by using your own data set right and so we'll come back to this, but what I want to just let you know and see is, I have the link to get to the free communication I have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The setup instructions on how to to install it so if the screenshots are slightly different you know, they should be about right but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That means actually close that but, so in this browser I mean in this and not here this is this link here, this is just data bricks little general in general introduction to data bricks.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the cool thing is is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is actually technically a data bricks notebook and so you can actually import this in and even have some code and stuff die here play with but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we'll come back to that so let's go through here and walk through just a few things so some terminology, the main thing i'll talk about us terminology right so when you go to this Community edition of data bricks.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you sign up for your free account and you log in it's going to look like this, and this is going to be your.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Your home and your workspace and the thing you notice over the right is this little bar right and so you're going to have a workspace some recency or have data and have things, called clusters you're gonna have jobs come search.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the workspaces what allow you to organize your work, so you think of a workspace as like a folder structure that has all your information, so in this case, when I go to this workspace.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I have my users in this case it's just me, I believe the Community edition allows up the three users.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you can, if you guys wanted to share and play around with each other and find each other to your Community edition.
MS Analytics Class 2021: of data bricks you can invite to other people, and you can collaborate and one of the things you'll we'll talk about here in a second notebooks is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can actually have three, you can have mean in the Community, because you only have three people in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But, like in the one I have like my data bricks at my office there's not a limit like that, and so you can have four or five six people editing one notebook at the same time, and they can be editing different cells.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because it's all cloud based and all management, so if you've used like office online and anybody anybody use like excel online or you know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: PowerPoint online where you're not actually in the excel desktop APP you're actually using Microsoft excel if you notice if it's through office 365 or now Microsoft 365 but you're on the office 365 using cell line multiple people could be in the same sheet editing it right, so if you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The same thing is true of these notebooks so these workspaces allow you to organize all your work.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And they can have your notebooks in your libraries and your notebooks are, if you did Jupiter notebooks and they called the Jupiter notebooks right so they're like Jupiter notebook so they have cells.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you can have markdown language, and you can have Python code, you have our code, you can have scala so scala is like a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's like a Java like language but scala is the language that Apache spark is written on, so the Apache spark software runs in a language called scala so that's kind of like the native code that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That spark is written on, and so, when you're writing these notebooks and you're writing your code, you have the option to do scala our Python sequel or markdown so you can have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The cells be marked down so markdowns that html looking stuff right so technically everything you see right here in this little Jenner and gentle introduction, because this is a notebook, this is an A markdown so I here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then I come down here, they have a few examples of code down here some of these are code cells right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, in the end, these workspaces you have your notebooks you can have your libraries so, but the notebooks are scholar Python So when I get to home, like right here, and I want to create a new workspace I can go to home click on my username right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In the home sorry.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And they just figured my user by user flies out over here, and then you know I can click this little arrow here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then I can say, like new create a new notebook right, I can create a new folder if I wanted to put folder and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: label this out ml flow experiment we'll talk about mo flow a little bit later I can export out, so I can have my notebooks.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And if I want to like if I wrote a cool notebook I want to export out share it with you, I can export that out as html I can export that notebook out as what's called a BBC so data bricks.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The sea is archive but file right, and I can import I can clone and I can create so if I say like create new notebook I can pick remember, I told you, they can be a Python scala sequel or are.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So spark Apache spark supports what's called sparks equal, so you can actually write like sequel to the data that's in your Apache spark and it's just kind of like it's like an sql you'd write in our database like Oracle or sequel server.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we're talking all Python today, so I, so I can just create a Python one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: give it a name on this call it DEMO for Class i'm going to eat this anyway.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And I say create right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So then have a cell now the differences between this and Jupiter notebooks this remember in Jupiter notebooks when you create a cell you could go and specify if it was a markdown sell or if it was a Python sell right or.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In data bricks will use what's called magic commands and that's right here that's what they're talking about right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: he's all percent.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's these magic commands if I want to do a markdown.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I can do.
MS Analytics Class 2021: reset md and then I click that becomes a markdown so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So i'll go back there and show you right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So now their cell becomes a markdown so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If I come over here and now the way to add more cells, when I highlight that cell I get this plus if I can add a cell below there or over here, if you look in the cells.
MS Analytics Class 2021: At this menu, so I can do things here, so I can click this drop down at a cell above or below I can copy sales cut cells export cells, so if I want to add another sale.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And DEMO class and this this is going to be Python right it's I can say import ios I can do, Francis.
MS Analytics Class 2021: version can't remember if it's a function with or if it's a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Variable I think it's a function.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I always forget the exact syntax.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What is oh that's good this one SEC, this is you got to do it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You do a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Python three x Brett.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Sorry, I know.
it's it says.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I am I doing here oh wait hold on sorry guys I don't really tight the os version for Python.
MS Analytics Class 2021: hold on one second now i'm just print.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This sounds silly but I don't.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I forget the the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's the thing it's imports, this system version Okay, I was I had since right and I had this version right and I had it right, the first time I just.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I if you notice I type system version, and I said I don't think it's a a function, I said I thought it was like this, but I just I did import os and not important SIS.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you see in this particular cells Python version is three dot seven right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Sorry, and you always when you go on the fly and your DEMO and like this, you always end up doing stupid stuff like that, but yeah so this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this is just a Python so, but the point here is just to show you how I created a markdown so I created a Python Shell on that the reason that's important is because, as you use these know putting like code.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You want to go and make your code have marked down so you know what's going on right so just, for example, these are these are out in your.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the download there's these files called BBC and so you can see some of these examples will walk we'll kind of walk through them, but you can see that these markdowns can be very.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know, complex, so that you can know what's going on and have images of stuff so let me go back to my little DEMO for Class so that makes sense right so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In our terminology of our workspaces and these workspaces have these notebooks and these notebooks are willing to write code for our database behind the scenes, when we run these notebooks.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We have to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: run them and and i'm gonna jump down a little bit.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The clusters right, so a cluster is just a group of computers, you know that's running your code, and so the cool thing about data bricks is in the cloud is to create these clusters I just come to this cluster thing right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And I can create a new cluster now already have to up there, let me zoom in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: US i'm sorry I know i'm probably making i'll drop.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let me take a break with zooming in and out Okay, so I go to my clusters, right here, I do need zoom in So you can see, you see, I have to notice one is green.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And it says running.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And I have one that's black assist terminated, and the reason that's terminated because this is the Community edition of data works, and so, when I create my clusters it'll run.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then, if it's an active for two hours it's going to terminate it and go away, you won't be able to reuse this anymore it's gonna just it'll say terminated and then after a while it will just disappear from.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Your Community edition, so I left us up to the show you because what's going to happen is when you start working with your projects.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you create your cluster you start working on your code and then it's not working right and he finally had enough like i'm gonna come back tomorrow.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Here come back tomorrow and you slept on it, the receipt terminated on your on your code and it's my say hey I can't attach to the cluster to run my code.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So those notebooks attached to these clusters, which is the computing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's running my code right and so you're to go run your notebook and say hey I don't have a cluster and you go there you'll see we'll start button next to terminate here and click on it it's not going to start.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So what you're going to need to do is and i'll do this now is i'm like delete these as i'm just coming here and click the little delete down here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I just click this little X right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and delete it so i'm going to leak this cluster so I can show you what it looks like me create one right so also what I want to do is show you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So right now I deleted it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And now it's terminating as soon as terminated deleted, so I have no clusters So what does that mean if I go back to my home and I go to my DEMO for class.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And if you notice right up here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: See, where it says detach.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and your notebooks it's telling you what cluster this notebook is attached to so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When you get out and you're using the non Community edition of data bricks and you're using an actual paid version of data bricks you might have multiple clusters and your data bricks environment.
MS Analytics Class 2021: may have one that's got gpus on it and it costs a lot of money to run your code on it, but your high end data scientist who's doing neural nets and stuff and once those gpus for performance is got access to that cluster and they're using it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then you might have access to another cluster that doesn't have the gpus that has a little less power horsepower was a little cheaper and you're on that cluster so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In the paid version, you can have multiple clusters, so when you go and run your notebooks you can attach to different clusters opinion, what unique those clusters can have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A different setup like how many knows that can have Min and Max so they can scale out so you have to commend number of nodes to maximum or knows.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know what do they have gpus on in the notes mean they have you know graphics processing units for things like tensorflow or for other things that can take advantage of gpus for performance, you know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the bigger your nodes and the more features, the more cash right, so this is a pay per use so data bricks is a pay as you go product, and so, which means you start it up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And it doesn't really cost anything until you create clusters and then we start creating clusters and running code those clusters so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When you start a cluster and it's running you're paying whether codes running in or not you're paying for that cluster right so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: An important thing to know, think about is when you get out and you're using this in the paid version you spin up a cluster when you set up those clusters and i'll do this now.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, actually, I want to try to run this code, so I go here and I try to run the cells over here and right here.
Karen Fireman: jumping off the page Jim did you stop me.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm sorry.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and make this a little smaller I think that's the sizzle to lie.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I make it a little smaller so in the cell if I want to run just the cell I go right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And that's where this pluses right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And I can click run so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: right there on reason I apologize, I have to zoom in and out when I zoom in I can actually select so that's why I have to zoom in and out, so I can't stay zoomed in and select the button.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The zoom and functionalities in doubt, meaning, maybe even stays in down I can't.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm just afraid you will never see.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Anything else we can see em you can see it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: doesn't say that okay and i'll just stay slim down let's give it up alright, so if I run the cell it's going to tell me hey the notebook cluster has been shut down.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Would you like to launch a symbol, a cluster similar to jb J to to run and what this is going to do is it's going to automatically create your cluster for you and do it, but i'm going to cancel and just show you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What it looks like to create a cluster because when you do this on a paid version, for example.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's not going to do that that's a Community edition fight feature on the paid version wise right at these all show up y'all watch me delete these don't know okay yeah so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: On the paid version here to come right here hit create cluster and you're given a name i'm just gonna call it a bj to plus.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm going to pick the runtime version now in the paid version there's going to be like 1015 more boxes and menus and options.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But for the free version, you can pick your runtime for what we're doing just take the default that shows up and notice right here free 15 gigs of memory, as a community edition user your cluster will automatically terminate after an idle period of two hours.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then down here, these availability zones don't worry just doesn't matter if this leave the default right, and this is just going to create me a cluster so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When you go and look at the paid version there's really a lot several more few few more options than this right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, and then the other thing is down here in this little menu right here under spark there's some different commands you can do, but you don't need to do anything about that right now.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In general somebody's gonna probably set this up for you the cluster you're going to go in the home and create a notebook so i'm.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I just hit create cluster and pretty much all you guys have to do and gals is just give it a name to create cluster just take the default.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Given a name take the faults that create cluster and then it's going to spin up and you see the little green box of spinning around right here that's let me know that it's spinning up my cluster form.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And once I have my cluster, then I can go back and run my clothes code, I can attach my notebook to my cluster to run my code, so the notebook has my data that's persistent that stays there, so when your cluster it like when you log out of this and you go sleep tonight.
MS Analytics Class 2021: or I go to sleep tonight and I come back tomorrow morning in this Community edition that clusters gonna say terminated my you will be deleted and but my notebooks and all that stuff will still be there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We have no it doesn't, let us.
Karen Fireman: It doesn't, let us create a cluster once we had the workspace done because the workspace created a cluster and it says, we have a limit of one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah you only have a limit to what, if you if you create if you ran your code and you let it automatically create clusters like I do you don't have to worry about it doesn't.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The name doesn't matter the whatever it is doesn't matter as long as you have a cluster that's active that's all you need and then your notebook will you attach it to an active cluster.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you're good you just need a cluster that's got a green dot like this one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because really the Community edition there's there's not really any settings other than you need one you only can have one cluster and the Community edition, and it needs to be running if you want to run code.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, now that I have my cluster running i'm going to go over here back to my little DEMO for class and you see right here, it says detach and i'm going to hit up here at the top there's a little little run all sells a notebook i'm I click that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And it's gonna say hey cluster blah blah does not exist, we will page.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then you come right here and I need to drop this little arrow down and attach it to my cluster so before you can run a notebook you got to attach it to the cluster I noticed when I attach it to the cluster all the syntax highlighting came on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So what we've done so far we've created a Python notebook we created a compute cluster.
MS Analytics Class 2021: With node so that we can run our code we've attached our notebook that's got our Python code to this cluster and let's just run all the cells and make sure they're all working.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And Sure enough, it is so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm going to import another package i'm going to import we're gonna talk about this package later don't worry about what it is now i'm going to import koalas.
MS Analytics Class 2021: there's a package called koalas and i'm going to run this cell.
MS Analytics Class 2021: notice when I hit run here and the arrow I can want to all above so you have the ability to remember in the visual studio code.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When I showed you if you had your cursor here there's options to say hey run this and interactive window up to this line or run from this line down.
MS Analytics Class 2021: same thing here, so if you if you made some changes and you want to run all your code up to the cell you still have those one all above and below so i'm just gonna run this one self that's all I have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm going to run it, and this will give me an error and that area is no module name for all US i'm a copy that because i'm lazy and I want to type that is because that's a package that's not automatically installed by default.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In this Apaches in this data bricks.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Like pandas, for example.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Remember, whenever you were running your code for like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Dr Jones or for me, you had to install pandas right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I didn't get an error for pandas so one thing to note about these data bricks environments, a lot of the some of the packages are already installed, a lot of the like pandas seaborne map live.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I can learn a lot of those packages are already in the cluster for you i'm sure there's a list somewhere, you find out but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you do an import and it gives you an error saying it's not installed, that means you have to install that package So how do you do that you do that on the cluster So if I go back to the cluster.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And if I highlight over the cluster and see right here, where it says libraries, or I can just select the cluster.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And up here, I see where i'm at right with me libraries I click libraries.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And it says no new libraries, no library, now that doesn't mean there's no libraries your clusters I just means there's no libraries that you've installed on that cluster.
MS Analytics Class 2021: there's libraries there because there there's a built in ones that come with Python and like I said I showed you how to import pandas.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And that's not something that's by default in your installation Python that's by default, because there are a list of default packages being getting set up in a in a data bricks Apache spark environment for you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: to pull an environment like fall into this I don't think he's pulling him off file, so this is not like a Honda environment.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right, so this so this so that's a good question right, and what that and so his question was for those of how I could hear it is like, is there a way to pull like an environment and install certain.
MS Analytics Class 2021: packages like a gamble file and I don't know if there's a way to do it the animal file, you can do like maven packages or jar files that might have stuff code in there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But it's not like you're not creating con environments here you each one of these clusters runs one version of Python.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right across all the nodes so it's consistent, so you don't you're not in these nodes you're not like how your on your laptop there can set up multiple cloud environments, you have whatever version and where did that version come from we created the cluster we told him.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We clicked right there and we said we wanted data bricks runtime seven five or data bricks one time seven six that has scala 2.1 to spark 3.1.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And those have the set versions of Java Python and set versions of scala set vs spark, and the reason is is because they need all this, they need all of this to work in conjunction so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that's that's why, when you notice you prayed a notebook and you said Python Python and say like 363738.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So these data bricks on times have this that they have a certain version of Python they're running a certain version scala number patchy spark scala so that earlier.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the version of spark and these cases were at spark for you, oh three x something that's the latest version of spark is the free version, so that came from there right so that came from any place your cluster so i'm I go back here go back to libraries.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I noticed one thing, before going to live on Jupiter notebooks real quick.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is showing me that I have a notebook attached.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To this cluster so I can detach if I wanted to write so it's just showing you hey here's this notebook here's where it's located.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's idols not doing anything, right now, so this is just a way like if you're in ministry in the data bricks cluster as a data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Data bricks administrator you know, in the cluster they have tools here for you to see.
MS Analytics Class 2021: hey who's all attached to my cluster what's going on that's what that's showing you but right now we want to get koalas install so how we do that, so we go to libraries koalas is a Python library, so we say install new.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we want to go pi pi.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So there's no contest like they don't use kinda and the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The data bricks and environment they use you straight Python and so you're going to use pi pi, which is the pip install.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The good thing is, you have to type the command pip install you can just type what package you want install and notice.
MS Analytics Class 2021: right here like they they have an example simple json, but you can do just like what you did when you did the animal file.
MS Analytics Class 2021: or like when we did the requirements file for the con for the kinda kinda for the docker install you can specify the version of package so if you needed a particular.
MS Analytics Class 2021: version of the package you can specify that on the line there as well, but we don't need that in this case we just we just want to start quality, so I typed in koalas and I hit install.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And it's going to go and install the koalas Python package for me we'll talk about what quality is in a second.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But now you see where it says installed now here's the thing to note that's installed in that cluster tomorrow morning I wake up in this cluster is terminated.
MS Analytics Class 2021: package is not installed in my new cluster I set it up, so you have to re install that package right so just know this is the Community version, the paid version, the clusters don't terminate and disappear on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The only terminate disappear if you terminate and disappear them yourself right so on the paid version your clusters will shut down, and you can set it up there's we don't have that option when we create the clusters here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: On the Community edition, but in the paid version, when you create your clusters there's a little checkbox you can say hey auto terminate the cluster after X minutes of idle time and you put with the minute car.
MS Analytics Class 2021: highly recommend you do that if you're paying for this, because these things can be expensive.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Depending on how much you scale out your clusters other things you didn't see when we create this cluster they give me options for how many knows, like the men nodes and the MAC notes.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The paid version will give you those type of options right so So if you need like 1000 knows the process something, because you have 60 petabytes of data, you can do that note that it probably be several million dollars, she has I don't want the Max node limit is but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But you can specify that in the paid version, but when you install your packages in the paid version and your clusters, they get installed or clusters not predate a brick.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Like my goodness, I did this install that was installed in that cluster that package, if I was in the paid version, where I can have multiple clusters.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And I needed that package for all my clusters and have to go to each individual cluster install that package that makes sense.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The main thing I want you all to know is, when you're playing with this later on, and you install a package and you go to bed at night, you come back up and get the recreate your cluster remember if you had any packages that were using.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That you were using you'll have to remember to reinstall them into your new cluster because this is the free Community version.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that's how we install packages and database.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, this is the cluster So if I go back to my DEMO for Class now that we install wallace no salt says it's red.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That doesn't mean that that's bad code that's just saying, the last time I ran it I had an error notice down here I want you to notice and things on here, it might be the smallest grade right here, but it told me, you know who ran it by user ran it what time.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this is just saying at three you know march forth at 749 and I try to run this I got this know module found air right so let's try to run it now.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We also be good oh crap.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Man i'm not good at demos, they might know this is, this is what I expected I promise you so when I saw the package.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I don't know why they have a bug that shouldn't keep showing us so one sorry there's a bug in their thing you know this this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: rid of my cluster you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: There, yes, for some reason, like there's some bug in there, and this chrome or this version might be this version of chrome is not up to date.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because I go back you know, so it should my old clusters, but the problem is once you install the package, you have to restart the cluster so anytime you install a new package into a cluster you'll have to restart so so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Just remember that.
Karen Fireman: What do you mean restart it, what did you do to restart it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I hit this button right here called restart.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we're there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So so that's so I just paint here back to my cluster and I hit restart I wanted to show you that on purpose, because.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We were last year when they were doing this students are like hey install the package, it didn't work.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And I was like Okay, did you restart the cluster, and so this is a point out some things I want you to remember so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Those of you at home watching like call me cat on TV right now listen.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If your things are made important because they'll leave your project your cluster will disappear after two hours of inactivity you want to delete and create a new one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Your packages that you installed in your cluster will disappear when your cluster disappears, so you need to re install your packages into your cluster when you recreate it again.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the third thing is when you install the package or packages, you have to restart your cluster so that those packages are loaded because for performance reasons these.
MS Analytics Class 2021: clusters when they start up a start up they load all the environments, they set it all up right, and so a lot of times also when these clusters they're not just sitting there idle so when these clusters get shut down.
MS Analytics Class 2021: they're not like you're you're in the data Center it's not like oh wait here's the jv J two plus.
MS Analytics Class 2021: hardware over here waiting to be restarted again no it's it's gone when I go to restart this again in the cloud the cloud defined some free resources available starts my cluster up on those right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's the beauty of the cloud, they can manage all that for us right so now that I restarted my cluster I go back to my DEMO for class.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You rerun the cell.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we have pretty little calls.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Everybody with me no.
Karen Fireman: No.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah, why are we not have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah hold on one second.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That is that I missed calls now, so I cut and pasted it, why is it not I just did this at home Oh, I actually just did this there i'll go to let's go back to my cluster and make sure that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I was still restarting sorry this is this browser is jacked up I don't know it's gone so let's go back to our libraries quality is there that's installed.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So why is it telling me it's not.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Just make sure I didn't miss type back, but no I couldn't pasted it right, I did so why is.
It is it working.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I promise you I demoed all this on my laptop by second like right by our listening to Dr Sarah was rewriting all my demos again, let me try this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: One more time yeah Mike yeah.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm gonna go, so I just went to a different one started it so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: they're having some issues.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it's trying this so see I must have missed type quality or something cuz or hasn't got the quality down here, no.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Oh i'm sorry my bad.
I take that back I did.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Yes, I did I did.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Your I retired this I just might just now right and I did this two seconds ago I keep forgetting its data bricks koalas why because data bricks wrote the Koala package, and they want you to know that this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: don't know why they make you do data bricks wallace because you know, like you, don't do import whatever not pandas.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But, for whatever reason, data bricks I guess wants you to know that koalas is written by data bricks.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so I promise you I demoed this code earlier, but now it's Okay, and I did the same error, this afternoon, when I was playing with this, I.
MS Analytics Class 2021: always forget that it's data bricks color because most people don't make you put their company name.in front of their package, but data bricks wants you to know that they created this package for you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: will come back to what qualities but so we understand notebooks understand the clusters understand how to attach how to install.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The Python libraries in our cluster into our clusters, how to restart them when the packages aren't there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And I promise I didn't type data bricks wallace and I got the error that first time I would have gotten the air as well if I didn't restart my cluster I still got that same error.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I didn't do that on purpose I just forgot the pipe data bricks wallace so and then coming back over here you have tables so order table, so if I go to my data here, I can have tables in here, and so I can come in here and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: do create tables, so I don't generally create my tables this way like I don't go to my data bricks click the data button click create tables i'm usually writing code during my data and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But because we're in class and Community edition i'm going to show you how to import your csv file in, and this is what I recommend you do for the class right now, but like out at my company, I have a data lake.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And my cloud or I dumped my files into it and then my data bricks environment knows how to connect to that data lake to read the files in that data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So i'm not having to go in here and do great new table, but for what you're doing and learning data bricks, this is a great way to learn it right, you can create this table it's going to put a it's going to load the file up into the cluster operating system for you to use and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And play with your code so so i'm just going to upload a file so up here, you get some other options just ignore that for now s3 is amazon's blob storage to collect their data like but i'm just gonna say upload a file i'm going to select my file.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And right now my cluster already has this file in there, but hold on one second.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm going to browse right here sorry I put I do this every time I want to say select select the saying hey if I want to select the file it's already on what's called my data bricks file system, meaning the file system that's in my cluster.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But in this case, I want to upload a file from my homework folder so i've exported, I mean i've.
MS Analytics Class 2021: downloaded into the desktop.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Your content here, I have my red wine quality father, so I just browse it I selected it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then some things to note notice this right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You want to remember this file store tables wine color red csv these are going to be a location of your file now I can come right here and say create table with you, I So if I do that it's going to tell me select the cluster.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To put my table I can click preview table.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's going to go and read my data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To try um I click first row has headers.
Karen Fireman: Because, in my case, the header.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And if I remember right the deliberate or semi colons i'm a type semi colon here I don't know why this is taking so long, there we go.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, then, I can say, create table so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and see right here this table name there's a little field it's a table name so creative me a table name called one call you read csv and then it shows me the schema and the data right So if I come back to data, I can see this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: red wine quality read csv table.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's in here now what was important, is whenever I go back here i'll do the CRATE table again, it was important to remember is when I browse and I select that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: file.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And i'm slowly slow, is to remember this part right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: right as follow up with because we're going to use that in the code so i'm I can't i'm gonna cancel this, for now, and this is DEMO this is in the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you forget this, if I go back to the project.
MS Analytics Class 2021: One thing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I show you how to create clusters I show you how to import and we're going to do this in a second the CDC file I show you how to import the notebook to the sample so you can run it I show you how to upload the file.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I tell you remember this path, right here, I put little arrows for you, so all right, so if you're if you forget it, I just said.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's in the project file, I give you, step by step instructions, how to run your project so.
Karen Fireman: You made a second choice there when you did the table one was blue on the left and then there was a second choice.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah the second choices we would have created a notebook with commands in it that would look something like this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so they said hey here's my file location here's the tight here's some stuff and do that so i'll give you that real quick that's that's I was going to do that, next anyway, so that was the next step, so I will come back here sure another way so.
Stephanie Pollock: In your in your.
Stephanie Pollock: project, it says, specifically not to use the data set that we used for the assignments one and two, but for the project you actually do want us.
Stephanie Pollock: Or do you want us to use red one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So really good.
Stephanie Pollock: In the file the project file, it says and to specifically not use the data set that we use for assignment one.
Stephanie Pollock: It says, use the red one quality.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Oh yeah I think you're right i'm Sorry, I think I I mean, let me Let me read it again.
Stephanie Pollock: number five.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Five yeah oh yeah you're right you're right I didn't I wanted to make it easy for you guys.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The whole point of this is, I wanted to make sure you how to set up data bricks you how to import data and use it, you have to import a notebook and use it, you had a run and so i'm not so concerned about you, having to make it your own.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What I want to do is to make sure that you were able to get it all working, and this is going to be really easy, so you know you're going to bring it in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so yeah thanks for clarifying I probably I totally forgot that that that's what I did right so users as on Nice not true i'm sorry right here and Edit new notebook to use your data set from assignment one no that's right no.
Stephanie Pollock: Replacing with red wine data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah that's what I mean by that that's just bad grammar by dude from Louisiana but I mean by that is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: you're going to import my notebook I take that back I do want you to use your own data I didn't I was confused, as you can tell, I confuse myself for saying I do still want you to use your own data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What i'm saying is is when you do this when I when I have you do this you're going to you're going to import with your data, not the red wine.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That makes sense, so what I mean by this is when you when you import this file.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And edit and Edit the new notebook to use your data set resign one you know you want to replace and use your data so that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But i'm only demoing red wine because that's what I have the template right, so what I would suggest is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Follow the steps just import the red wine, make sure it works and then go you'll import the notebook machete that second you'll import the notebook given a name to match your data set.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Important in connected to the red wine, make sure it works and then use the use this get data to bring your file and save your path and then you're gonna plug your your data into the red wine, just like you did for one and two homework.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm sorry I thanks for clarifying that carries I realized that's a little confusing what I meant by is when you're doing the homework.
MS Analytics Class 2021: My example show red wine, but I mean is, replace the important the data with your data set replacing red wine data with your data set does that make sense.
Karen Fireman: except one thing I think amy um it does, but I thought, our data sets for the dad.
Karen Fireman: Did I forget where our data sets are or it's just any data set.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is the data set to use for homework one and two.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I basically, I want you to have to go find new ones so whatever data set us for homework wanting to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I gotcha gotcha for this yes.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Yes, i'm sorry curious I apologize I I did I was like I didn't think I had to do this red wine, I want to do at least still be user data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So sorry sorry it's a little confusing my wording.
MS Analytics Class 2021: English is my second language after New Orleans so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That makes sense i'm sorry I confuse myself when you get up here talking, you know you can easily forget what you're talking about sometimes so So the idea here is you're gonna take my red wine.
MS Analytics Class 2021: dpc file sharing for a second and make it your own with your data set don't worry about trying to do fancy models during like that just.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Put your data file in there, if your data files excel and you read you read itself save it out to a csv and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: bring it in you're not having you don't care about using your pickle file here and build a new model so if you had 60,000 columns and you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: don't you don't need 60,000 columns pick two x's and ally and be done with it, I just want you know, make it easy on yourself makes you just get data bricks working with your data set.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I mean this class is not about building valid models this class is about learning the technology so that you can deploy your models.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that makes sense right good so thanks Chris good question I see how I wrote that might even feel myself again when I read it, I was like no.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So so back to here so somebody asked what happens when I do right here, so I did this browse a grab one one quality that instead of the blue, what if I say create table a new book new book.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It gives me this right, you might do this, the reason why is because now, I have this notebook and if you forgot to write that path down guess what it's right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And what that path is is where that csv file you uploaded was stored in the file system and your cluster.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right, so when you did this great table you him, you gave it a file it dropped it to a file system and then, in this case when it says, create a notebook it gives you a few commands so i'm attach this to my cluster and i'll run this and let's see what happens.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so it says hey here's my file location that type of si SV it's got the Dillon winner of comma, it might be calm actually in the snow, these are semi colon I think actually so see right here notice something notice right here, where it only showed one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right unless there's like gives me one column.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It didn't refer the right the limiter and we're this round my one quality that has a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A semi colon So if I change this to a silly calling now I get right but oh that's not the right headers.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I need to change that the true.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So play with this, you know import file running notebook like that, so what this is doing right now, here is this is setting some variables up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And it's using spark reformat so what this is from from the pie spark package and it's creating what's called a spark data frame So if I, if I have a slide on this in a second i'm gonna go to the slides in about two minutes here a second So if I press tight def.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Or we run this again.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can see down here, this is a pi spark sequel data frame what's the other data frame you've learned in in this in this in this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In this program.
MS Analytics Class 2021: pandas pandas right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So now, you know second time.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So these are specialized data frames, that the patchy spark the data breaks can use to be able to parallel eyes out your code and run faster so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can't take like SP learn, so I could learn those standard Panda library standards use me Python libraries that work on Panda data frames are known pie you can't take those and run them against the spark.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The pie spark sequel data frame that's a special type of data frame and that's require.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A code and packages from and since we're using Python here from pi spark to use the spark data frames i'm a DEMO this in a minute.
Karen Fireman: He can I ask you, questions Karen or do do all these things disappear that we just did that you just did if you're on the Community even.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Though you're gonna disappear, the cluster.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The cluster goes away, but all this code sits there.
Karen Fireman: So the data, so the part, so if we went into data later after we are cluster went down able to see this stuff.
Karen Fireman: Yes.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah the data will still be there, so that does keep a it does shut down the resources, but the data is there and I can confirm that, because I haven't used this Community edition until this morning.
MS Analytics Class 2021: actually did it last week, too, so I was checking things out but I haven't used it since last semester, and this code like right here that i'm demoing So when I went right here, and so, if I go in here and I go to read one quality.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And if you look, you can see where I ran this today at 124.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I didn't re upload that file, it was there, so it the file stay there, but won't stay there are the packages and the cluster computing nodes itself, but they will they do give you a little story i'll keep, though, when a request those clusters that knows how to recreate those files.
Karen Fireman: Thank you.
Charles Swanson: Get Jamie Mr Charles.
Charles Swanson: clarification, are we going to be using your model but we're just attach our data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you're gonna take like i'm already here, right here so you're gonna take this and you're gonna replace with number that that file so like when you upload your file your place with the path to your file here come down here and you're going to replace the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: word for that so see right here, I say data equals the F to Panda some so i'm reading this in right here as a spark data frame.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we're actually going to process it as a spark data frame we're going to read it, and as a spark data frame but we're going to use.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This to pandas function to convert our spark data frame back to a pandas I wouldn't normally do this when I want to be able to use this stuff at scale, but just for simplicity sake for just showing you guys how to use data, where it's like the main thing I want you to get out of this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: is how to create the clusters important notebooks and and use data bricks and this case we're going to import our data as a spark beta frame that second type of data frame but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's what I was just talking about these SK learns these are just standard Python packages they can't work against a spark data frame they only can work against a pandas data frame and to do that, I have this little.
MS Analytics Class 2021: function called to pandas.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And it is a built in function actually comes out of pocket now What it does is to a packet of product called Apache arrow.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Which is a guy that invented pandas and then the our guy the brain just went black hills in Houston actually I think still is in Houston heroes deep flyer and you know all the all the our packages, if you know our name my brain just went blank.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's a collaboration them to to kind of like take.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And kind of seamlessly make data frames and different things work and operate kind of the same between all the different environments, but this aero package this arrow thing will take the convert this data frame using two panels to a panel data frame.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, then you'll just come down here and you'll split your data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: up right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you have your chain and test split.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then you'll come down here here here is i'm using some Panda functions right so i'm dropping quality out of X so i'm using this drop function to drop quality out of my training xml test specs.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then i'm using training quality and train so i'm just using these things from grabbing the quality that's what I was predicting my red wine to create my wife that makes sense, so, whereas I did it and homework one and two, I was using non pi.
MS Analytics Class 2021: itself it's just.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I had my excess 03 11, then I had my Why is 11 so I just use those you know the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Rules the end that's a split it up and in this DEMO i'm using pandas and so i'm using taking advantage of have to have the column names to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To use this drop function and pandas to drop the quality and then i'm using just the double bracket you know what column name to grab those are the y, which in this case is quality makes sense.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, this is all yours so and then just do a simple elastic net we're gonna fit it put on our square that's it it shouldn't take you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Hopefully, but an hour to do.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But she says, I can.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I give you a we.
Karen Fireman: are using your red wine quality and putting our data into.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah using this as a tempest exact same thing you did for wanting to use this as a template i'm gonna show you how to get this template into your environment in a second.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Next, and you'll import this in as your template and then what you'll do is you'll do the thing right, where I just went since, in the send the file.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the project you'll go through, where I went to data first and you'll do create table and bringing your csv file right and then you're going to come to home and you're going to say here you're gonna say important.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And this is documented in the file and you're going to go here and look for what red wine quality BBC, not the quality wine red wine quality BBC or a small either ones, the same it actually can do both but pick the BBC and hit open.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then i'm gonna say important now.
MS Analytics Class 2021: notice it created this red wine quality one right Lee your background is hilarious people are fighting underwater.
Karen Fireman: You get back to it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it says down here, right here, so now, when I click on it, so I got a home imported this in the import and it came in and said hey I already had one called red wine quality, so it just automatically added this one to it right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So what I can do is I can come in here and say rename and then you would say let's say your data set is the ames housing data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you can name a name housing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When you come here and say.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know well, excuse me didn't go here and say.
MS Analytics Class 2021: ain't ain't housing right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then you'll walk down here you'll put it to your file and go out that's all i'ma show now because I gotta move on for time sake to plus.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know it's in it's in the this Doc and part of the homework is just you know, making sure.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You get a new one thing you want to check before you turn it in is make sure that and I am going to zoom in just because this is real grain odyssey.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Make sure that when you run it that it actually ran and it shows your email address and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know time right, because what i've had people do is they put mine in there, they run it and it didn't actually run and the output still stays there for my it has my name in it and I like okay you didn't actually get it working.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you want to make sure that if it was working you're gonna see the command took X seconds it's going to have your email address in there and it's going to have a timestamp, but when you did it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So he turned it in late and he said no, it wasn't late, it was a thing with the problem with.
MS Analytics Class 2021: campus I go well, I have your DVD SCI fi imported it and I can see the timestamp was you know April 1.
MS Analytics Class 2021: aftermarket right, so this will tell on you right so that's just I just want to show you that because that's what i'm going to look at them, I look at your code.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And I don't really have to I can know it all ran because I can look at nice thing about this is everything gets output from me and see I see your name I see the time it ran.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So so that's just kind of a tour of how the database works, the only going to talk about jobs, but you can't use jobs in the Community edition, but the thing about jobs is is you can kind of use.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can use data bricks is your whole environment if you wanted to to implement code and run code.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And things like that, because you can actually in the paid version.
MS Analytics Class 2021: scheduled jobs are run on a schedule and things like that now.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Do I know a lot of people do that not really in the enterprise, you know we're we're using products like as your data factory, which is a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Integration tool in the cloud and azure that allows me to go and connect to my data sources pull them in and dump them in data like to dump them in databases.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Are dumping whenever and then, in this case the data bricks we use as your data factory that our data sources.
MS Analytics Class 2021: dump our data into our data lake and then our data bricks environment is connected to that data lake it's got permissions to see that data lake.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and see the files that are in that data lake so just kind of think of like a data lake in this instance for what data brick is using as like a file storage in the cloud right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And it's got some folders and files and different things in there, then I can go to data breaks to connect to my data lake similar I was saying code you saw now, but instead of going to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To the local file system that the cluster is using i'm going to my data lake during my data and coded and then the same data factory that's move the data into my data lake.
MS Analytics Class 2021: can call these workbooks it has a way to call the workbook centered i'm excuse me, excuse me networks combined workspace and notebooks.
MS Analytics Class 2021: As a way to call these notebooks and running so I might have notebooks that around to do predictions and things that i've written this data breaks, and so this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the agile environment, I can have data factory call a workbook that's like my prediction work code that can then say okay take the new data I dumped take the model that I built and train and one of my prediction.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'll also show you i'll talk about mo net package in a second, but as another way to deploy bottles and whatnot.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, but you can do jobs and so some people do you know can some environment small shops different things might use the jobs here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So might not say hey I don't need a data factory I don't need that i'm just I just want to be able to write code at scale and run it, and so they might.
MS Analytics Class 2021: use the data thing bring the data in and their cluster builder models and then skip like jobs in here to run them.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But that is available to you so that's that's that so i'll go back to the slides, and then we got 35 minutes left and talked about a few different technologies and then i'ma show you a couple more demos, and then hopefully say five minutes at the end for.
MS Analytics Class 2021: conversation alright, so my spark i've talked about this a little bit earlier but pi spark is a is a package that allows Python code to run it scale.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In the environment so like that the packages of us are before like SK learn or, if I could learn or.
MS Analytics Class 2021: SCI fi or.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Some other package you did with Dr Jones class the summer, those are not built per se for park spark.
MS Analytics Class 2021: They can run an Apache spark because it's just Python so they run like they still run like if you when you look at the red line DEMO I gave you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: were taking that spark data frame converted it to a pandas data frame, so I can run SK learn so it's like Hitler so they still was still just Python but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you want to take and run your code at scale and take advantage of the fact that you have all these nodes.
MS Analytics Class 2021: you're going to go and you want to keep your data in a spark data frame and the we're going to use the packages that are available and pi spark if you're using Python.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To run regressions at scale, so instead of taking these SP learn to run your linear regression you're going to use the linear regression.
MS Analytics Class 2021: function that's in this m live inside of pie spark and so i'll DEMO this in a second but does that kind of makes sense.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, like if you use SK learn, it has to go against the pandas are a nun pie it's just gonna be like a serial operation that's not going to scale out.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But if you're using Python spark and you're using the libraries that are available and pi spark those have been optimized to run it scale and Apache spark against your.
MS Analytics Class 2021: pie spark data frames, so that it can so it knows how to chunk that up like I said here, I read this data frame that's got all my data in there and i'm going to use this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: pie spark library to run my model and knows how to take and vector eyes and spread that code out across these multiple nodes and put it all back together and give me your results.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Whereas SK learn and things like that they're not built to know how to work in pie part, so what they do, is it just.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You run your code it just runs it wherever you picked a note note and runs it right, it just runs it as let's talk a serial operation doesn't know how to parallelize it out across the multiple pie spark is what gives you that capability.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So and there's some links, so you can go and like that bottom link will show you all the libraries and what I DEMO altima library here and pi spark.
MS Analytics Class 2021: already talked a lot about spark data frames, but it's it's it's it's the structure looks a lot like you know, a pan is data frame data rows and columns and things like that, but it is optimized for running on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's optimized for running at scale with pi spark package so bring your data in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Making a spark data frame you saw that and we did that notebook thing, where I brought the csv file and I said open a notebook you saw her and brought it and using the spark data frame commands.
MS Analytics Class 2021: what's your that spark data frame, you can then use them lives our lives that are in the pie spark against that data frames are on your models at scale.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Apache arrow I mentioned this earlier So when I remember when I bought my when I showed you the DEMO where I for the red wine I brought the data in as a spark data frame.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then at that bottom I had that def to pandas line that she that she using the arrow Apache arrow project behind the scenes to say hey take that spark data frame and quickly convert it to a Panda so it's got optimizations and the arrow has optimizations to know how to to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: communicate and work between the pandas and a spark and do things like convert files from spark data frames to pandas data frames or.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Vice versa, so you're not really importing pyro it's already there it's like one of the package is already there and knows how to use it as like think.
MS Analytics Class 2021: patchy spark to got three, but if you hear the word Apache arrow, I just wanted you to know what it is, because it is you with with patchy spark and dealing with pandas and things like that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: sparking frame so pandas uds so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This came out 2017 ish I want to say and what it was is people, people were like hey is there a way we can still use pandas inside of park park instead of spark but at least do some kind of parallelization some kind of scale, and so what they did is they created this pandas uds.
MS Analytics Class 2021: vector ization were effectively, you can bring in a pan this data frame and then you can create a function and that function is going to be applied across.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A grouping of your painters data frame so like if you had a panel data frame that maybe maybe it had like so last year, the example I use is one of my students work for verizon.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and his project was building time series models for cell towers and so he.
MS Analytics Class 2021: He ended up having to build different models for each cell tower or for like each type of soul to tell time right so to build a different model who's thinking about it, like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The tower that sits right next to city Center it's gonna be different than the tar that sits next to junior high by my house that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I use every night of house right through the day it will pre coated.
MS Analytics Class 2021: No, not a lot of people were home right so wasn't that busy but at night when there's, no one has home phones anymore that towers really busy on the weekend entirely whereas.
MS Analytics Class 2021: One you know right next to downtown might be busy during the week during the day, but not at night, and on the weekends right and so he had to build models across all those different.
MS Analytics Class 2021: cell tower the pandas EDF what it did, is it allows it allows you to say Okay, I want to do by grouping.
MS Analytics Class 2021: apply this function, so what it can say is OK i'm going to do this algorithm for this Tower for this Tower this Tower, and so it knows how to take your data frame and then spread it out.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and run it in parallel, but it's not the same as if I had.
MS Analytics Class 2021: 100 million rows of data and I didn't run one model against them hundred million rows I can't use this to do that it's going to it has to be using the spark data frames and pi spark to take advantage of the clustering.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But this vector ization just gave you a way to say hey it has some data if I group it up, I can apply a function in parallel across different groups of data that's just what they think about it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This kind of took over a little bit, but koalas kind of replaced all that, so to speak.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the reason being is the smallest package and you saw me import this in earlier it's a pain as API that's on top of patchy spark and What it does is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It allows you to work with these allows you to work at scale and spark as if you're in pandas.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so you can bring your data into these Koala data frames and you can do all the same commands that you used to using with pandas but it's going to do it at scale.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and patchy spark and then, when you're ready to go and build your model, as you know, you can go to a spark data frame and what DEMO this and next I can take that quality data frame converted really quickly just spark data frame and then use.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The pie spark packages against that data frame to at scale, so you can work with your data at scale as if it's pandas and then, when you're ready to build your model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That quality take that calls data frame credit as a spark data frame use the spark spark package to do the models that are available in the pi spark package.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To then take that part data frame and run your model at scale and then, when you're done, you can output, the results back to a quality data frame so that you can play with it as just like how, with all the same type of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: functionality, like the same commands that you use for Panda so so the way to think about the quality is like I want to bring data in as a pan is data frame.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But I want to take advantage of the scaling that Apache gives me or to do that as they wrote the smallest package that no that's aware of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Apache spark and clusters and instead of using import pandas SPD we get married an important data bricks koalas as ks.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But then we can just create these quality data frames and all the same syntax and things that work like to do and pandas works with qualitative friends.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But their spark aware, and so they know how to take advantage of the spark and so when you issue these commands to slice and do things against your data and a call is data qualitative.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Data frame, you can do that at scale now you still when you go to build your model at scale you still have to convert it to a spark data frame it's one lot of command.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then use the pie spark models against it, then we're done, you can convert it back i'll DEMO this will probably make more sense.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Everything i've talked to in DEMO so far it's more around batch type data so like we build a model against the red wine data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right, we were just have data at rest right it's just here's X number of observations of wine quality we built the model against it, we predicted.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then hey we consider new predictions in and score well as you send new predictions in the score, we can actually stream that and and the Apache spark API knows how to look at streaming data, so the way this works is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Typically, a lot of data lake and you'll have a process that's using what's called don't worry about memorizing this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But you get there's technologies like an azure cloud and all them like streaming technologies but know how to stream, the data into your data late.
MS Analytics Class 2021: there's also a patchy has Kafka has one product that allows it to stream data in a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In a format structured format and land it and keep stringing that made it into your data lake and then you can and there's a DEMO right there you click that to kind of see some demos and stuff.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But so, then you can have a workbook that's running it's continuously running so like the notebooks even notebook.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know notebook that's running it's got code in there to know how to watch that it knows it's looking for streaming data so it's just sitting there watching that folder as data streams in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's picking up that data and processing processing it and doing whatever it is, it could be scoring it as a prediction.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It could be taking the data and doing some data wrangling and then doing a prediction against it, it can be do whatever you want, but the idea is data streaming in to a file location.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You have a notebook that's running continuously and your data bricks cluster picking up that streaming data and doing something, whether, whether it be predictions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Which is a lot of the case, what people are doing, and so, so we like so like if the oil and gas industry we we built algorithms to as.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Real time drilling, whereas we're drilling lie that data off the censorship rigs are streaming into a location.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then we have models that are basically classifying what's happening at that rig as it's drilling, so that we can look for errors are slipping are we.
MS Analytics Class 2021: going off track and things like that right, and so, as the sensors coming in it's loading that data and stringing into location.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you can have a notebook that's that's looking at that location looking at streaming data and storing your that prediction and output and doing different things, but it's running continuously, whereas.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Before you know I run my notebook was done, I built my model and i'm done right, so you can actually have streaming data, so this this patchy spark API.
MS Analytics Class 2021: allows for that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Then they'll flow, this is a package it's Open Source data bricks is kind of the main contributor wrote it and the idea here is it's a it's a way to track deploy.
MS Analytics Class 2021: track your models build your models and your in your projects right, and so the idea here is kind of like a life application lifestyle man.
MS Analytics Class 2021: management so it's basically a management of your end to end machine learning life cycle right so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can use xml flow packages to to as your training your data is keeping track of your training and then it knows how to go and say deploy it to an.
MS Analytics Class 2021: azure or deploy to sage maker and Amazon, and so it has these packages to know how to do that, last week I mentioned a product called azure ml.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And one of the I think it's a DEMO I I won't get the DEMO tonight, but I will I will DEMO it in the video.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because I already have it recorded I just need a pad put all together for you, but in the DEMO but all the things that are showing the DEMO is we're in azure ml.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I can build a model that I can deploy it as a service from the notebook and it's in behind the scenes they're using this ml flow library.
MS Analytics Class 2021: to automate that deployment for you so it's got calls, where it says Okay, you have this this morning bill Oh, you want to deploy it to an APP service in azure.
MS Analytics Class 2021: or container and azure is mo flow packages to do that deploy it and then it can test it and do all that, so this is a low flow.
MS Analytics Class 2021: package what you understand about it is it's it's just a way to have this end to end lifestyle.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In the end, lifecycle management of your projects right for when you're doing these machine learning projects so there's a link there to DEMO it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I haven't used it a whole lot, but I have used it some and some of the things behind the scenes and stuff I got it I got it so when I did this last year.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I had Kevin is a guy which are data bricks he's my sales REP for my company he sent me a few sample codes that's kind of roll documented it's already pre run.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, those are the BBC files that are in I put those ddc files, so you can add as a BBC or html and your week seven download you can import that in to your Community environment and look at that code.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so the cool thing about these ddc and html files when you import them into your data bricks environment.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It has all the information from the last time it ran to so when you import some of these demos in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Not the red wine, when you can run that one once you put the file there, but like these other ones that have this ml flow that are real documented that you can tell was done by.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Data bricks themselves so i'll try to run them because you don't have the data and all that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And all that stuff will go away, but you know go and look at what the code looks like and look at the output, because then you can kind of see what's going on is that makes sense.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And if you accidentally try to run it and the stuff goes away or get broken things just delete the notebook and re import it in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Does that that's all that information so like when you get done for your project years to give me a BBC file i'm going to open up my Community edition, and I can just look at all your code and see hartman.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And although you ran it like I showed, you will have your email address on it, the time you're in it, and all that right, and you can't fake it because it's a BBC fox.
Karen Fireman: How do we save it as a dpc file.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So export so that's I think that's it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah I think that's in the document, but if it's.
Karen Fireman: Not.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You just use the export you just right click on it and say export.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I think I have it here.
Thank you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah that right there says right there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So one don't delay, so I talked about data lakes so data lakes are kind of just file storage is kind of the cloud making that data structures and things like that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Another project product that data bricks is working on this is an open source product as well as called delta lakes and so what you can think of it is like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: database properties inside of your data lake so Center data lake just being a collection of just file sitting out there, they want the ability to make it kind of work like a database, and so it can have support what's called acid trends actions, meaning.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When you make when you update data, you know it got updated you know it was all done in isolation, like your update didn't affect other stuff things like that, so the properties that databases give you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So they're doing all that with the idea of like their their their vision data bricks is is that data delta like will become your next platform for your data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right that's like you'll put your data there well which reality is your transactional systems like your SAP we know your systems that have transactions stuff for now we're going to live in your delta lake.
MS Analytics Class 2021: anytime soon, but their idea is that they're just trying to make the data lakes, be a little more intelligent.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so it has these delta files behind the scenes your what's called a park a format and so i'll just talk about parquet for just two seconds, but park is a binary format it's calmer storage meaning.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The data is stored in together as as columns not by rose, so all the data is bunched together for column one and then in the file.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then column two is where is the next part of the file how i'm free and it's for performance reasons we don't analytics column or storage is faster and so these delta lake.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Data lakes are storing the data as these parquet files, they have all these helper files around it to know oh you updated.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This data, so it knows that oh you updated it, and if you want to go back to do like time travel where you can say all of this data with like yesterday, it has all these delta things and it's keeping track of to give you that capability.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If some people are using it is catching on but just I just want you to know if you hear the word delta late and data bricks that's what it is it's like this intelligent data lay that brings a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: database type properties to your data lake in other words, you might hear it so here data lake in other words, right here is lake house.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, like houses are our data lakes in conjunction with like data warehousing so the azure setups analytics product, I talked about last week for a few minutes that had a data lake and had sequel servers and it had.
MS Analytics Class 2021: pipelines, all these different things that's what you'll hear the word like a lake house is industry terminal here and so it's the combination of data lakes.
MS Analytics Class 2021: relational databases and data warehousing, and all this stuff on this one product, but for data bricks and this term delta lake is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: An intelligent data leak, so instead of just like file seen on storage in the cloud, these are file co storage in the cloud specific format, with specific functionality and api's to support it kind of acting more like a database so for more reliable and and so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's the slide so very tough project.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let me show a few more demos, we have what like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: 20 minutes or so let me show a few demos, and then.
MS Analytics Class 2021: leave some room for questions and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I go back to the Community edition here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'll make this big so in foster with the quality one so and the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: downloads here, so the others do by type, so you have the PDF which I just showed you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You have this real time deployment, so these two right here, these oh four oh and G, these are those two samples that I talked about that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Data bricks gave me to show you a little bit about ml flow, you have an example of what the code might look like for ml flow both of those have ml flow in there one rights to html one lights to azure machine learning and the other one rights to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: aws if you try to run them they're not going to actually write to aws or azure it's just showing you what that code would look like to do i'll.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'll show you that in a second, if I have time, if not it's well documented it's just it's just something as a sample for you can see right the data bricks katie but the things that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I want to show you today are red wine for quality and red wine quality and so we'll start with red wine quality actually because that's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What your homework is, and I think I showed you this already but effectively all we're doing here is we're trying to train was caught elastic net is a psychic learn.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we did the data we brought in our file, this is where it was located.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So read so remember, I told you, these percent are called magic commands so I did percent Python you don't read percent Python notebooks of Python So if you don't do a magic command it's going to be a Python cell.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But you have these little magic and so percent fs says hey list right go to the Google file system and list that so that's what that percent fs is doing oh my gosh look at that baby Brian oh my gosh that's so cute at the pinky and everything off boy or girl.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Oh you're muted i'll wait i'll keep talking and you can tell me.
Brian Frankel: If it's a boy sorry, and since I have the floor had a quick question right i'm a delta like cannot handle unstructured data like check images and things.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah absolutely yeah absolutely so Brian that's good Chris good question because see.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When you talk about relational databases you're doing talking about structured data data that has columns and rows right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But when you're talking about a data lake it could be structured data or it can be unstructured data so unstructured data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: is data that might not have a structure, like a column or a row, like a data frame right, and so it might be json documents or it could just be just raw files I don't have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, but that delta lake is still a data lake it just has these asset properties and so as you don't files.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can go back and kind of time travel to the different files right, so it doesn't it's not like taking everything and making it structure so without saying hey Dr lake is not a relational database it's just giving you that that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Data lake with some properties that are that relational databases have like transactions and time travel that makes sense.
Brian Frankel: It doesn't question is, will just because specifically we're dealing with the Bank in Texas, is trying to do this, so can you also index this way as well, to make it so you can find these particular structured data points and unstructured data points.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So by index, do you mean like a data like index looking So do you mean and that's the stuff like an index and the database we index a table, or do you mean index, in the sense, like, I have a data catalogs and or my data is in my data lake.
Brian Frankel: The second.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So the second one is that's me start my my data catalog so in the azure side that's when you get into products called as your purview so it actually, as you can go look at your database and catalog all the data that's in that data lake.
MS Analytics Class 2021: there's other products like believers and other one there's other data catalog products that can do that I don't know delta lake has a haven't got into the into the delta lake as much I don't know if they have like a cataloguing piece right where it's showing you what's there but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you can fact we could like code to to do it, but there are like if you're dealing with like say azure.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A big product they have now is called purview it's which used to be agitated catalog.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And now it's aggregator catalog version two and a bunch of other stuff where.
MS Analytics Class 2021: They can go look at all the data, you have in your environment, whether it's on premise in the cloud or this in a database in a data lake wherever catalog what's out there and let you put tags and metadata put experts and things like that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I mean July we start talking about cataloguing you're talking about a product to playing with their Jose tossing the ball there oh.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's the dog is that a golden doodle.
Jose Adan Prego: Yet is the doodle good.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Alright cool alright, so I go to code, we got 30 minutes but good question by and then, so this is just like fs this is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Issuing commands at the files and that's these magic command you're doing so, then I said this is bringing it as a spark data frame.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know, and then here down here we're going to where we're going to make it a pandas I don't think we actually use non pie here I can't remember if we do a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: lot of times that just do not pie and pandas as default when i'm working with our user we're not but then we're going to do sky it's a psychic learn so that's why down here, I have this to pandas right because remember we're not dealing with we're dealing with non spark aware.
MS Analytics Class 2021: code and psychic learn it doesn't know how to deal with Apache spark in the sense that it doesn't know how to scale out but remember.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's still just Python one of these nodes going it's going to happen here because we're using psychic learn and using a penis data frame.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's just going to run it like if I was running on this PC you're going to gain really anything with the spark environment there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But I just wanted something simple so that you can learn how to import a notebook learn how to edit.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The code in that notebook or how to play with the clusters, or how to install a package, if you need to learn how to to just get familiar with data set it up right now.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This stuff is pretty easy so just walk through this now, what do I show you now because of 12 minutes is I will show you pi spark and Koala so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is just a sample this article I just kind of use the red wine data, and I use this article to kind of build the code we're gonna do.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we're going to do a regression, although we have classified data for one quality but ignore that, for now, this is all I had time to build because it's kind of a last minute thing I was like Oh, I need to show koalas and then so we're going to do a regression model, but you can.
MS Analytics Class 2021: there's other package in Africa his other packages and pie spark that have classifier right, so you can edit this go get a classifier because really the wind posit classifier.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and make a class with our, but let me walk through what the codes doing, because you still can treat this like a regression right predicting why from access for a walk through what's going on, so we're importing data bricks koalas.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And I import seaborne someone us a little later on here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So i'm using.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The import qualities chaos, I do ks read csv This is just like do like data frame right pandas data frame PD read, so if I did this with Panda data frames, I can say.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Import pandas as PD and just to show you, I can say Panda data frame equals.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And if you ever start teaching like I do generally don't edit your demos like this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is like blow up as you saw earlier, but this should work right the idea here is and then i'm going to say i'm going to say.
hi.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Say PDF right so i'm gonna run this cell is running i'm gonna talk so it's got a bunch of code down here, and you see right here, where it says file not found who.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Oh.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is what happened so i'm going to take back a statement I made earlier Karen.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you remove the cluster terminate your file will go away.
Karen Fireman: The file meaning this finally in mind.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah, so this is so my old cluster was still there and it, let me restart it so If so, for whatever reason it wouldn't let me restart it again, so I thought, maybe they took that away so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Before you delete your if you come back to your Community I don't play in the Community edition that watch how I do have class right, I have like seven I have like seven or eight paid versions of data bricks the office.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I work with and so sometimes they change what happens in Community edition so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you come back in your things that's terminated, there should be a little start to start it I could never get mine to restart when I was here earlier.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Apparently it obviously worked earlier that restarted my files, they are so if your cluster still there and it's terminated, it should come up, but if you get this air it's easy to fix right, so, if you remember when I came over here and I did this 235 right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I just I can just go and grab this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Come back to my calls right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And this is why I like when I do my what I do this is why I showed you this part, and so I did a great table I like doing as a notebook was going to give me the command and it's going to put my file path in there right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So yeah, so I think that I take back my statement in the Community edition I don't deal in environment where my.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I don't deal with environment.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Work for my cluster ever disappears, it might shut down but but yeah you're right, it does it does remove the fall I wasn't.
Karen Fireman: Even mistake there it's double double double double.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Up sorry thanks Karen.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I didn't see that it dropped that anyone I copied it Thank you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let's try that again.
Karen Fireman: So does errs run I mean it had that limitation of one node or do you ever problem running this thing because we only can do one note.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Though yeah no problem, no problem you won't have a problem, why is this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is this not working, I just did this red wine to read to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Read Oh, I see that I copy the wrong thing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I know this works, because this just works right so let's go back here let's go back to I was breaking because you can kind of see how troubleshoot right.
Why is that.
working.
On second let's see something.
To me.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's Okay, should this should still work.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm not sure why this isn't working hold on one second.
I will get it working nori.
MS Analytics Class 2021: file not found does not exist, foster so let's just do this alone let's just go to data secret table and say Brown.
MS Analytics Class 2021: let's say why holly.
MS Analytics Class 2021: let's scrap that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's a great day will not book.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Oh, I don't, the problem is for one second I know I think I know is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: let's run off.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that worked on one, second, let me, let me go file.
MS Analytics Class 2021: score here works basically one, second, let me see something important.
A browse but we re import wallace to give me a new name here.
that's that should work so let's go back here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A horse I can actually be jays class let's go right here to here.
It should work I don't know why it's not working.
So.
Far not found red wine does not exist.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Oh, this is the Panda thing I know it is, I think it's going to be dbs.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I think I hear me shake it's so as a shortcut I was going to ask sorry this is, this is why arrested don't DEMO it's not the quality ones that's breaking.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's the it's this one is because in pandas it needs this db pandas is not spark a weird the true path is D bfs colon So if you look down here whenever so here, I do it this way, but if i'm learning the pandas I believe i'm going to need the bfs like that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Cohen, and let's see if this works.
Oh.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I might have to just comment that on come back to TV fs colon.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm saying this doesn't work on my comment on i'm not sure why it's not working something's weird it has, this is what i'm doing is it's on this path and has to do with it has to do with.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, you slash DPS okay that's what it is sorry that's how many well if I just slow down and read.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It told me what to do.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It said, you see here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay i'll come back to them or comment this out and if we have time in a second i'll play with it, because this is not important.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But I was just trying to what I was trying to show you is if I get the file system right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This stuff is the same right the Read CVs for koalas is the same how you would do it for pandas data frame the difference here is because we're in a spark cluster and pandas it's not aware it's really wanting us to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To look at actually hold on one second bear with me guys in a hurry hurry you guys give me two more minutes I can get this working.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah okay welcome back, so let me, let me so we can track and walk through koalas and you can understand it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: will walk through koalas and then i'll come back and figure out why this isn't.
MS Analytics Class 2021: running so I just commented out the pandas data frame one, but the point I was trying to make here was once you got the once you get the path right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This should work, but the idea is it still take that koalas is supposed to be like a one for one syntax to pandas right, even though it's spark aware as doing things at scale.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's supposed to be a one to one syntax for for for spark that's what I was trying to show there, but I wasn't getting the file path right for whatever, for whatever reason.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that's just all running so let's just walk through what this is doing, while it's running so importing my paula's imported pandas here to make this work, but didn't so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So i'm just showing the tight, so what what type is the Koala data frame, so I come down here, you can see it's a it's a data bricks koalas data frame.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But I have functionality to take that quality and making a pandas data frame using to pandas.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Or if I needed as a spark data frame I used to spark to get the spark data frame right, and so, if you remember the idea here is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can use Koala to bring your data frame the data in and to quality data frame you all the massaging and things you need to do.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In pandas that you're comfortable with and then, when you're ready to build your model and pi spark you just come down here and use the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: to spark function to convert it to spark right, so you create a spark data frame with the to spark so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we bring our data in just showed you the tights showed you the column, so you can see down here, where I just showed you the columns and different things, you can see where they came in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right, and so I then I have to create it to export data frame and then I import in some packages from pi spark.
MS Analytics Class 2021: These packages are Apache spark aware right they know how to operate at scale across these clusters these notes, and so this gbt aggressor is a grab bag was dpt stand for gradient boosting sorry I believe aggressor.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's just a regression algorithm it's not the stuff the psychic, but when it's the pie spark what right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, this is like having a psychic learn like that this is coming out of high spark in the fly right, so this is the MOP the algorithm we use, and you can see, this down here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To build our model right, and then we have this vector similar and what this is is this assemblers what's going to take all our exes and put them into one column.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In a vector, and the reason it does that so that I can it's a requirement for these high spark packages.
MS Analytics Class 2021: so that I can do things faster at scale and and through vector ization right and then we're bringing the regression evaluator so we can evaluate our model did.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But we're not using what you're used to using and Dr Jones right, so I can't learn or five higher things like that we're using the actual pi spark now so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we bring those packages in, and then we have to create this vector similar so What it does is to say, these are all our exes, so I do those x's and then.
MS Analytics Class 2021: My output column is one column, that is, the vector eyes version of all my exes so if we come out here, we can see that, right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That you see that right there on the zoom in real quick so close your eyes for a second So you see, we have alcohol sulfate, this is a vector eyes version of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All of those right so 747 4.0 7.7 all the way out to nine for that makes sense, so that's what this command is doing is it's creating this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: vector similar doing screen that and then we use this vector similar transform to to to to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: to actually create this creates this special data type that has it will praise the spark data frame that has this vector eyes version in it right here, right and so when I when I did this command here, I did the show this is what's showing you that that data frame with that vector ization.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, now that we have that we can split the data, so we can use this random split function as a split 7030 and then it's going to split and it's going to split up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A zero and one so system split up you have two inputs here, so the first input or grab as a train the 70% and then the first the first the second one, this one we're gonna grab as our test right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then we're gonna go use the training data set to build our dresser so the features calm So these are the feature calls is our exes right that's that vector ization we did.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Our label call is or why that's quality right we'd have to do anything special with quality we'd have to vector eyes are at that because it's just one fault.
MS Analytics Class 2021: One column, so we pull it we end up getting a vector quality right and so that's these quality, so this is our why, and this is this vector ization of all our exes.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then we fit our model so so go out and it's to take advantage of all the nodes we have in this case it gets to the Community edition and spread that workload out and so that's when come down here, you can see.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Where they go Oh, the map, right here sorry, you can see, all this stuff there's there are some.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When it was all right here, you can see here it's all these jobs, all these stages right you see where I split all this up to stage, all this up to go.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and run your code and so you can see where it's right here, where it's where it's vector rising all you know this out and and paralyzing all this out in our cluster right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then we just do the simple evaluations and then, when we're done, we can convert back to a quality data frame, so that we have it, just like data frame that's pan is aware, so we can do things like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: printed and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And like map plot line so you can see, this is just a map plot live print right here, right and so that makes sense.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So kind of as a high level we use koalas to bring in our csv file Craig quality data frame we convert it to a spark data frame and we could do things with it, so we bring those call data from.
MS Analytics Class 2021: US me for speaking fast for a second we bring this quality data frame in we can just use all the same API commands are familiar with pandas to mess with our data and do things and it's gonna do it at scale, because the Koala.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The Koala package has the syntax of pandas, but it has the awareness.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Of Apache spark so it knows how to take advantage of the clusters and do it to do all this stuff at scale.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Like what you would do again is the only thing you need to do, though, is when you want to actually build your model, you have to do create it to a spark data frame.
MS Analytics Class 2021: so that you can use the spy part pot pie spark ml live to build your model and using these you don't use the psychic learn against that spark data frame you use the high spark is that those those models are aware of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Of Apache spark and those models are know how to work with spark data frame which is a special type of data frame that can be scaled out, and then we have that vector some where we had to do we split we train make sense.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, and then that's really all I have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: is far as.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All this stuff is just a DEMO I showed earlier.
Karen Fireman: than one that we can run this when you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Think about that absolutely.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You just there you'll see oh right you'll see like wine red wine or white quality flawless you bring it in the only thing you need to change.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is whatever you just make sure you import my the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: red wine quality file and wherever you put it just change that one spot right there everything else can stay the same, and you can run.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And if you want to get adventurous, and you don't want to do if you don't want to do the pandas way for your project.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you say hey I don't want to do the pandas one where I take my data bring it in convert to pandas you psychic learn, and you want to do this, one either one I don't care right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: They both have the same thing you're bringing your own data and you split it up and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: you give me one BBC, whether you use red wine for quality or you use red one quality that's using the standard just Python stuff your choice, so let me show you one thing real quick and then we'll call it a night and then, but I will I will.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let you guys obviously ask questions or but didn't cover something so one thing I want to click is this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And oh that linkedin work i'll fix that tomorrow that's weird.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Sorry, I thought I clicked always I always.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this is this is where I thought that link was going Oh, they change it to point Oh, but if you look right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So if you come right here and i'll update i'll update this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Over the weekend and the PDF and fix the links are really trying to show you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: See, these are in the in the in live package price Park, these are all like the regression see like the Christian logistic regression models, you know for vector machines naive bayes clustering stuff right they have some evaluation, so it doesn't have everything you know that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That you have with the other packages and Python right, but it has a lot of the main ones, and so a couple things.
MS Analytics Class 2021: scala is the data is the native languages sparks written in some packages, like some of the gradient boosting packages and they I think they might have some now for pi spark but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Last year, like a gradient boosting was like actually boost it was a scholar only type of thing that you had a run in the actual like scala code you couldn't use Python.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So they have because Gala is the language of Apache spark for it, and then you know it tends to have some more available packages that pie spark might not have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: was effectively what people are doing is somebody maintaining a pipe parks high spark package to kind of keep up and build these algorithms to make them.
MS Analytics Class 2021: aware and run and Apache so if this is me, and this is like the Apache spark this is kind of the de facto.
MS Analytics Class 2021: environment that people are going to to run their their code and scale data bricks is the leader there, the company that created it their stuffs pretty cool.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I didn't show you I said sin Apps analytics last week it doesn't use data bricks but does use Apache spark.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, like I could take the code I just show you, it will still run and in the data bricks and the Apache spark clusters.
MS Analytics Class 2021: they're just not the data variant and the data brilliant has some extra code to make it go faster like you know because because they own the code they they.
MS Analytics Class 2021: kind of contribute to open source to make it really good and usable but they keep back a little bit to make their product for you want to pay for it right, and so, but you can see, this environment it's really easy to use, like if you need it to to quickly scale up a company at a high.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I mean a rapid environment to scale and build models of scale, I mean how easy is this, I mean I mean i'll give you example our.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Our business users up in Denver for my company for years ago I went up there just an all day workshop and I showed him data factory and data lakes and sequel server and data bricks and how to move the data in our pipeline.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And these are like engineers, you know it people, and these are engineers there's, not a single it person there other than me.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And it's all cloud base I showed them how this all works and like oh eight hour workshop, and for two years, they have built hundreds of models and data bricks.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And data factory and data lake where they're taking data factory moving their data into the data lake taking data bricks connecting to it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Building out their models calling data factory to score miles predictive models out putting the results to a sequel server database and then putting the power bi report on top of it for the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Other engineers to look at and say hey you know which models that we build last night, how does, how does things look, you know, based upon the bottles, we ran an automated last night so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It was just it's so made super rapid like I can I can set up a productions secure.
MS Analytics Class 2021: high performance analytics platform and data bricks and minutes really so that being said.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I think it's time to call it a night, but I will stay here, as long as you want to ask me questions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: you're free to go a couple of reminders you didn't turn one into get it turned in before the 18th i'll still great it, I will take 10 points off stuff for people that are on time they'll get full credit if they did everything right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then get your project in, we will have office hours Monday i'll be there, the following Monday, Dr hartman will start oh you've already had him for a day and he'll start doing the office hours That being said, your projects, I do the 18th right so on the the.
I guess that's gonna be.
MS Analytics Class 2021: 15th is a Monday so he'll be doing the office hours that 15th but, that being said, you know your projects, I do the 18th, you have my cell phone, you have my email.
MS Analytics Class 2021: text me send me an email and say hey i'm stuck or hey you know I need your help.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And people I think people will attest that i'm usually pretty quick to respond back to you so i'm sitting on a sailboat, and so I did go sailing this week and I said I did get my certification I got 100 on a test.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can feel like to go sale with me Mike and feel safe I technique I got a 98 but I got 100 all the answers right, but you had a bubble in the spreadsheet in a bubble sheet like you did, like the SAP right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But, like the SEC has like a B, C D and maybe these had a B, C D E, F and to the answers were he and I just filled the last bubble up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To the mark the wrong way those are like very basic know exactly Oh, she didn't have the letters actually in the bubbles, and like Why did you not do that, so I got everything right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So if you see me about yourself with me I got 100 and I had to do all this yeah so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Any questions or any like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: thing you're like you know I wish you'd have talked about this and i'll talk i'll talk i'll i'll i'll make stuff up if I don't know but i'm here for as long as you want me to you, I know it's mine 10, or so I know she wants to go home she wants to go home so.